Sha’aban Ibrahim, a member of the house of representatives, says the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has prioritised security more than any other democratic government in the country. Ibrahim is chairman of the house of representatives committee on national security and intelligence. He spoke on Wednesday at the investiture organised for Berting Mobanzi as the new president-general of the Network of African Parliamentarians for Defence and Security Committees. Ibrahim — the outgoing president-general of the group — said the parliamentarians commended the Buhari administration for the “remarkable performance in facilitating efficient national security sector reform that attracts the attention of sister African countries“. “Honourable president and distinguished delegates, it is significant to note that the Buhari administration has not only prioritised security on its governance agenda but has committed more time, logistics and resources to address the national security challenges than any regime in the history of democratic governance in Nigeria,” Ibrahim said. “At this point, it is important to mention the professionalisation of the military/intelligence community, enhanced provision of capacity development services, improved international collaboration within ECOWAS states and consistent increase in annual budgetary allocations for the security sector over the years. “This fantastic development has strengthened the national security agencies to address disturbing security threats from Boko Haram insurgents and other emerging crimes to ensure stability in governance and peaceful coexistence in the country. “It has also propelled the image of Nigeria for setting exemplary leadership in fighting humanitarian crimes and ensuring sustainable democratic governance within the ECOWAS sub-region and the continent. “In support of this reality, the Buhari administration has facilitated the enactment of laudable sector reform legislations that have a significant impact on national security and realisation of government agenda related to the development of political and socio-economic rights of Nigerians.” He said some of the laws include the 2021 Petroleum Industry Act, 2022 Electoral Act, 2020 Police Act, Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act, 2015 Terrorism Act, 2015 Administration of Criminal Justice Act, and 2015 Money Laundering Prohibition Act.