A pre-election opinion poll commissioned by Anap Foundation, a non-profit organisation, has predicted that Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, will win the March 11 election. The poll results showed that Sanwo-Olu was ahead among the three leading candidates in the state. The two other candidates are Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour of the Labour Party (LP) and Abdul-Azeez Adediran of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The results of the poll, which was conducted in February before the presidential election, were released on Monday. The poll results showed that 31 percent of the voters surveyed said they would vote for Sanwo-Olu, while 8 percent preferred Rhodes-Vivour and Adediran, also known as Jandor, got 7 percent. “The results showed a significant lead for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu with 31% of voters proposing to vote for him if the governorship election were to be conducted today; 8% proposing to vote for Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour (LP) who
fell in second place and Azeez Olajide Adediran ‘Jandor’ (PDP) was third with 7% of voters proposing to vote for him,” the poll reads. “Governor Sanwo-Olu’s 23%-point lead at this stage is significant, as the opposition voters are fragmented and shared between 2 main challengers in the ratio 31:8:7.” Meanwhile, Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of LP won in Lagos in the February 25 presidential election. Lagos is the political stronghold of Bola Tinubu, the president-elect which he has not lost to any party until the last election. There are fears among the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) that the result of the presidential election is a signpost of what is to come in the governorship election. ‘SIMINALAYI FUBARA TO WIN RIVERS GUBER ELECTION’ The NOI poll also predicted that Siminalayi Fubara, PDP governorship candidate in Rivers, will win the March 11 election in the state. The poll results show that Fubara is having a significant lead with 20 percent of voters who preferred to vote for him during the election. Magnus Abe of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), came second with 12 percent, Tonye Cole of the APC scored 10 percent, and Dumo Owukori Lulu-Briggs of the Accord Party had 6 percent. Beatrice Itubo of LP scored two percent. Tinubu, the President-elect, was the winner of the presidential election in Rivers state.