Ibim Semenitari, a former commissioner for information in Rivers, says the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state does not manipulate election results. Semenitari,  director, new media, PDP campaign council for the Rivers governorship election, decamped from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the PDP in November 2022. Responding to allegations of electoral manipulation in Rivers following the February 25 elections, Semenitari on Saturday said the results announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) are a true reflection of what took place at the polling units. “We are a responsible party. We will not do any such thing,” she said. “We need everyone in Rivers state to win the elections so how can we be involved in anything that will affect their rights? “The voters are the only strength we have and we need them on our side, now more than ever. “Numbers announced by INEC tally with the result sheets as captured by vigilant voters. “In two polling units monitored in Elelenwo stronghold of the PDP but where large turnouts of non-regular voters were recorded Peter Obi’s win was duly recorded on the INEC server despite initial disagreements by voters who thought the non-functioning of the IREC would disenfranchise them. “The same was noticed in polling units in PHA LGA, Okrika LGA, Opobo/Nkoro, Andoni and other LGAs monitored by reporters and independent observers. “Such substantial compliance may indeed absolve the INEC team in Rivers state of the claims of manipulation of results. I think it is important that we allow fact over opinion.” The former commissioner added that results uploaded in her polling units “were a true reflection of what took place”. The conduct of the presidential and national assembly elections in Rivers, among other states, has come under scrutiny. Pat Utomi, professor of political economy, has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to review the presidential election results in 10 states. Utomi is the convener of BIG-TENT, a coalition of political parties, social movements, and civil society organisations (CSOs) in support of Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP). He listed the states as Lagos, Rivers, Imo, Benue, Nasarawa, Plateau, Kaduna, Katsina, Adamawa, and Akwa Ibom.