A group known as the Network of Tinubu Support Group has asked the All Progressives Congress (APC) to nominate Muktar Betara, a house of representatives member from Borno as speaker. Betara, who has been reelected to represent Biu/Bayo/Shani federal constituency in the lower legislative chamber, has not formally declared his intention to pick up the speaker’s gavel. However, there are indications that he might run for the country’s number four position. Given that he is put forward by the ruling party, Betara will need the votes of members-elect to secure the position if there is another contestant. In a press conference in Abuja on Sunday, Moses Ikani, president of the group, said Betara is qualified to effect the changes Nigeria needs through the legislature. “As things stand now, Nigeria needs a crop of new leaders, especially at the legislative arm of government which section 80-84 of the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria 1999 vest the power and control of public funds as representatives of the people,” Ikani said. “The legislature is a key democratic institution for political representation. “So, to fix Nigeria, we will have to tweak some of its working parts by separating the gold diggers and power thirsty from those who truly want to serve at this level of leadership, and to accomplish this is to do away with mediocrity and clannish interest. “Amid this seeming hopelessness in our polity, we found a highly resourceful parliamentarian in the green chamber of the National Assembly, who is familiar with the challenges inherent in leadership at the Nigerian legislative arm of government. He is Rt. Hon Muktar Aliyu Betara, member representing Biu/Bayo/Shwa and Kwaya Kusar federal constituency in Borno state. “By our assessment, he did quite well, extremely well, taking into account the challenges – the enormity of challenges faced by the 9th national assembly shortly after the inauguration in 2019, when he was unanimously elected as chairman of the house standing committee on appropriation. “RT. Hon Muktar Batera is one individual whose capacity to complement the actions and policies of the executive as speaker of the house of representatives would expeditiously guarantee the much-needed turnaround of Nigeria.”