The federal government says it will relocate 10,000 persons from Mosun Kingdom in Bassa LGA of Kogi state following the impact of the 2022 floods. According to NAN, Abubakar Yelwa, managing director of the Hydro-Electricity Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC), spoke on Monday during a tour of affected communities. Yelwa said the relocation became necessary because the negative impact of the 2022 floods caused villagers to desert their homes for safety. He added that the government will soon commence the construction of buildings that would accommodate the affected persons. “We will begin construction of buildings that would accommodate the affected villagers in two weeks if we are shown the piece of land by the traditional ruler and the Bassa Local Government authorities,” he said. “What we are afraid of is the flood for 2023, going by the prediction of NiMet, which says this year’s rain would be heavier than that of 2022, which may mean more flood than what we experienced. “Here we are at the site, and you can see for yourselves the levels of damaging activities of the River Benue in these communities within the Mosun kingdom. We have to do something to save their lives and make their living worthwhile. “As soon as the authorities show us the piece of land to relocate them, we shall begin construction work immediately. We are ready to move our equipment to the river banks to start work on controlling the ravaging erosive activities.” Burka Ali, traditional ruler of the Kingdom, applauded the federal government for the initiative. “No fewer than 10,000 people were displaced by the 2022 flood. In fact, land space of over 300m was washed away by the flood,” Ali said. “As for the piece of land for the resettlement of my unfortunate people, we have already selected a piece of land to show HYPPADEC. “I am short of words. We appreciate the commission and the Federal Government for this show of love and concern to the people of my kingdom. “We are ready to cooperate with HYPPADEC to see that the resettlement programme is a success for the good of our fellow brothers and sisters as well as our children, who have suffered due to the flood.” TheCable had reported that the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) had warned that this year’s floods could be worse than that of 2022. In its seasonal climate prediction, the agency predicted the early onset of rain in many parts of the country, adding that states needed to take action early to forestall negative impacts.