The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) says 1,332 terrorists — including their family members — have surrendered to troops of Operation Hadin Kai across the north-eastern states in the last two weeks. Speaking during a bi-weekly news briefing in Abuja on Thursday, Musa Danmadami, director,  defence media operations, said the surrendered terrorists comprised 222 adult males, 411 adult females and 699 children. During the two-week operation, Danmadami said eight terrorists were killed while 35 terrorism logistics suppliers were arrested and 19 victims were rescued. The defence spokesperson said the troops also recovered 10 AK47 rifles, one LMG, seven rounds of 5.56 ammunition, one LMG link containing 111 rounds of 7.62mm NATO, 200 rounds of LMG ammunition, 46 rounds of 7.62mm special and 12 rounds of refilled and 7.62mm special, among others. “All recovered items, rescued civilians, and apprehended suspects have been handed over to the appropriate authority for further action while surrendered terrorists and members of their families are being profiled for further action,” he said. He added that scores of the terrorists were also killed by the air component of Operation Hadin Kai in the region. Giving a brief about the military operation in the north-western states, Danmadami said troops of Operation Hadarin Daji and other operations have continued to sustain an onslaught in the zone. He said the troops had, within the weeks under review, killed 13 suspected bandits and rescued 23 kidnapped victims. The troops, he said, recovered seven AK47 rifles, 12 AK47 magazines, 158 rounds of 7.62mm special, one locally fabricated weapon, four improvised explosive devices  (IED) and two Dane guns from the bandits. Danmadami said one motorcycle, one handheld radio, nine bicycles, 39 rustled cows, 74 sheep and N10.5 million cash were also. He said that the recent cashless policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), coupled with the sustained effort of the military had led to a reduction in incidences of kidnapping.