The Lagos state government says it has commenced the release of impounded vehicles to their owners without payment of fines. Speaking to journalists on Tuesday, Frederic Oladeinde, Lagos commissioner for transportation, said the release of the seized vehicles commenced last Saturday. Oladeinde said vehicles that were seized for minor traffic offences would be released to their owners and fines waived. He said Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, took the decision to ease the impact of the naira scarcity on the citizens. “There are some people that committed offences during that period and we understand the fact that money wasn’t easy to come by,” the commissioner said. “Looking at the governor’s magnanimity, the governor has deemed it fit to ensure that people who committed crimes within that period and wanted to pay or couldn’t pay as a result of the shortage of cash, should come and pick up their cars and he has waived the fines. “Mind you, that does not include major crimes committed. These are just minor traffic offences that have been committed in Lagos and this is showing empathy and trying to understand that look. “We understand how difficult it has been and it is not a reason for us to stop you from making ends meet and so hence the governor’s magnanimity. “When you look at what the governor proposed, especially during the cash crunch period, we have reduced public transport fares by 50 per cent. “So when you go on our BRTs and all the Lagos state-funded public transport, including Lag Ride, we have reduced the fare by 50 per cent just to alleviate the suffering of our people. “Apart from that, moving away from transport, we have opened up food banks in certain areas. So we’re beginning to give out palliative just to ensure that people get through this cash crunch period.” In September 2022, the Lagos state government auctioned vehicles forfeited to the state over traffic violations. During the auctioning, motorists faced with the reality of permanently losing their vehicles were seen crying. The development sparked reactions on and off social media as some Nigerians argued that the auctioning of forfeited vehicles over traffic violations was harsh.