Who is the governorship candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in Rivers state? Many will say Itubo Beatrice but some insist it is Fafaa Princewill. This inability to see eye-to-eye is the source of a controversy brewing in the Rivers chapter of the LP as Princewill has declared himself as the governorship candidate of the party in the state. Despite his claim, Itubo Beatrice remains the candidate recognised by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Members of Princewill’s camp alleged that his name was submitted to INEC following a February 2 court judgement that recognised him as the LP candidate. TheCable is yet to obtain the said order and has also been unable to reach Princewill for clarification. Similarly, the electoral body is yet to issue an amendment on the standard bearer for the state.  Itubo has however dismissed the claim from Princewill’s camp, saying she remains the candidate of the party. “I want to state categorically that I am the Labour Party governorship candidate in Rivers state. The party has not changed my name,” Itubo told TheCable. “I am currently in Abuja. I was with the national chairman who affirmed my candidacy. So, there is no basis for what that man (Princewill) is saying. It is a gimmick. I am sure somebody has paid him to do that. On the alleged court judgment, she replied: “Where is the court judgement? Let him bring the court order. Let us see where the court said my name should be substituted with his. “You can check INEC if my name has been replaced. I’ve told my lawyer to contact him, I am not even bothered. I have told my supporters not to be distracted but to come out and vote for us. “All he is trying to do is cause distraction among our teeming members. The only work for us is to tell people that I am still in the race. Labour party knows their candidate. INEC knows the candidate. So, there’s no point for that distraction.”  When TheCable contacted Yunusa Tanko, LP national campaign spokesperson, he said: “Mrs Beatrice Itubo is the one I know. “You know the party has the constitutional right to put up a candidate but I am not too sure if that change was made. If the change was made, I will confirm and get back to you.” Julius Abure, LP national chairperson, did not respond to his calls when TheCable tried to reach him for a reaction. The governorship and state assembly elections are scheduled for March 11.