Helen Mbakwe, candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) for Anambra central, said she lost the election due to the blurred logo of the party on the ballot papers. Earlier this week, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Victor Umeh of the Labour Party (LP) as the winner of the senatorial poll which was held on February 25. Chuka Enuka, the state’s returning officer, said Umeh polled 103,608 votes to defeat other candidates. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Mbakwe, who did not finish in the top five, said she was denied victory because the logo of the NNPP was “practically non-existent” on the ballot papers. “The challenges of my party’s logo identification experienced by those who voted and those who intended to vote for me were too much,” she said. “Our logo was blurred or practically non-existent on the ballot papers, thereby confusing my voters. “We all know the details of the logo of NNPP, which is ‘Basket of Fruits’ and the Party’s name, NNPP, whereas INEC presented nothing that looked like a basket of fruits and the acronym NNPP on the ballot paper. “The NNPP logo on INEC’s Ballot Paper confused many of my supporters and they voted for any party like LP and YPP.” She also accused INEC of disenfranchising voters from her stronghold with the late arrival of voting materials to their polling units. The NNPP candidate added that she would be challenging the result in court and reclaiming her mandate. “This, too, disenfranchised many early birds who had trooped out to vote for me,” Mbakwe said. “I am still ready to serve my people because I believe strongly in the principles of the rule of law, equity, equality, fairness and justice. “My patriotism is unflinching and my zeal to contribute to repairing my country is still alive and burning. “I am talking with my lawyers as I will be calling for a cancellation of the senatorial election result as I was completely left out of the voting processes after having campaigned vigorously. “I urge our people and supporters of NNPP as well as Nigerians to be calm while the leaders of our great party chart a course for us as regards the errors perpetuated by INEC against us.”