Dele Alake, media adviser to the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council, says one Lloyd Ukwu, a US-based Nigerian claiming to be an executive director of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), is trying to discredit the victory of Bola Tinubu, president-elect. Ukwu is said to have granted a press conference where he made disparaging remarks about the credibility of the February 25 elections. In a statement on Thursday, Alake said the “impostor” is working to further a sinister agenda on behalf of Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP). “It must be stated emphatically and without any ambiguity that Ukwu is an impostor, hellbent on hoodwinking unsuspecting Nigerians in the diaspora and the international community to further a sinister agenda on behalf of the Presidential Candidate of the LP, Mr. Peter Obi, who came a distant third in the last presidential election,” he said. “That Ukwu is attempting to fraudulently exploit the NADECO platform for Peter Obi against Asiwaju Tinubu is so laughable and a grave insult to the sensibilities of Nigerians, who witnessed first-hand the struggle by the pro-democracy group in restoring democratic rule to Nigeria and the roles played by prominent Nigerians, including independence hero and nationalist, late Chief Anthony Enahoro, Asiwaju Tinubu, Professor Wole Soyinka, General Alani Ipoola Akinrinade, late Commodore Dan Suleiman, late Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu, Professor Bolaji Akinyemi, Chief Cornelius Adebayo and several other pro-democracy activists in exile to birth the freedom from the military dictatorship that Nigerians enjoy today. “We reiterate that Ukwu was very peripheral to this group of eminent statesmen and illustrious Nigerians who bore the pain and peril of exile so that our country could be free from the jackboot of military dictatorship of late general Sani Abacha. “It is imperative to remind Ukwu and his desperate paymasters that while Asiwaju Tinubu put his life and resources on the line during those challenging times, the likes of Peter Obi were either hobnobbing with the military or nowhere to be found. “We are of a firm belief that Lloyd Ukwu is an agent of the Labour Party and Peter Obi, who were rejected by the majority of Nigerians at the February 25 polls. “Majority of Nigerians have spoken loud and clear that Asiwaju Tinubu is their choice to lead Nigeria from May 29, 2023. There is absolutely nothing Ukwu and his ilk can do to change this fact of history.”