The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has reacted to a viral video claiming that some of its officers have arrested a criminal syndicate engaging in electoral fraud in the federal capital territory (FCT). On Tuesday, a video showing some persons arrested with some items like the bimodal voter accreditation system (BVAS) machines of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) appeared on social media. In the video, some of the items were branded with the tag — INEC. The persons were said to have been arrested at a building located in Maitama, FCT, the country’s capital. Situation Report : Nigerian Police arrest BVAS syndicate, who allegedly manipulated the electoral process at Maitama Abuja. President Elect • #INECElectionResult • Obi and Atiku • #NigerianElections2023 • #Electionresults2023 • RCCG • Nyesom Wike pic.twitter.com/9V9T1A3wvh — Samzy (@SamzyVG) February 28, 2023  Reacting to the video, Muyiwa Adejobi, force spokesperson, said the police visited the building after a tip-off from residents of the area in Maitama, Abuja. In a statement, on Wednesday, Adejobi disclosed that when the police arrived at the building, some electoral materials, including BVAS machines, were discovered. The police spokesperson added that INEC confirmed that the occupants of the house are staff of Emperor Technology, a firm outsourced by INEC to provide engineering services. “Operatives of the Nigeria Police Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB), acting on a tip from residents of an area in Maitama who reported suspicious activities, visited the location, interviewed the occupants, and conducted a search on the house,” Adejobi said. “In the course of the search, some electoral materials and BVAS machines were discovered in their possession. “However, the Independent National Electoral Commission, when contacted, confirmed that the occupants of the house are staff of Emperor Technology, outsourcing engineering services to the INEC, and they were immediately released to go about their lawful business. “The force, while urging well-meaning members of the public to discountenance the false and misconstrued narrative being spread by some sections of the media about the arrest of these individuals and their link with BVAS manipulation, charged reporters and media houses to endeavour to do due diligence and ascertain the veracity of the information on the public space before spreading such to avoid being victims of the ‘breaking news syndrome’.”