President Muhammadu Buhari is set to depart Nigeria to attend the fifth United Nations conference on least developed countries (LDCs). Garba Shehu, the president’s spokesperson, in a statement, said Buhari will leave on Saturday for the conference holding in Doha, Qatar capital, from March 4-9, 2023. He said the visit follows an invitation by Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, the Emir of Qatar. He added that the president will, during the conference, reiterate Nigeria’s commitment to support the most vulnerable countries to meet their development challenges, tackle climate crisis as well as poverty. “The conference which is from 5th to 9th March, 2023 under the theme: ‘From Potential to Prosperity’ holds once in a decade and provides an opportunity to garner the support of the international community for accelerating sustainable development in the LDCs as well as assist them make progress towards achieving prosperity,” the statement reads. “In Doha, President Buhari will reinforce Nigeria’s commitment to support the most vulnerable countries to meet their development challenges, highlighting areas through which the Nigerian government has provided them with various forms of assistance over time. “As most of these countries struggle to find sustainable solutions to challenges of poverty, adverse effects of climate change, food and energy crisis as well as high-debt burden among others, the Nigerian leader will vigorously reiterate the need for sustainable solutions for countries facing these severe challenges. “The Summit will be attended by world leaders, the private sector, civil society and youth organisations. It aims to share developmental ideas and mobilize political will, solidarity, action and solutions to transform the LDCs, by finding sustainable solutions to the challenges of poverty, food insecurity, hunger, weak or non-existent infrastructure, inadequate health facilities, climate change among others as they struggle to deliver on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030.” The president will be accompanied by some ministers and top government officials who are expected to use the opportunity to sign some agreements and memoranda of understanding (MOU) with the Qatari government. Buhari is expected to be back in the country on Wednesday, March 8.