The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) says Nigerian women must not relent in the struggle to achieve affirmative action in public service positions. Tony Ojukwu, executive secretary of the commission, said this in a statement issued on Wednesday to commemorate the 2023 International Women’s Day. International Women’s Day is celebrated on March 8 annually. In March 2022, the national assembly, while voting on constitutional amendment bills, rejected the bill seeking 35 percent affirmative action to ensure women occupy 35 percent of government positions. Ojukwu said it is time for gender equality to reflect in the leadership system of the country, adding that Nigerian women have shown their capacity in various professional fields. He said, “gender discrimination usually comes with a lot of denials to the detriment of the society as women with great talents and potentials are neglected merely based on gender”. “However, women’s prudence in resource management and developmental skills cannot be overemphasized, therefore they unarguably remain the pillars of our future, given the enabling environment and opportunity; women have the potential to turn things around to make the world great and a better place for everyone to live in”, the statement reads. “Therefore, entrenching the policy of affirmative action will not be a misplaced priority because it will provide the opportunity for those women who were hitherto relegated to the background in the so-called men’s world to spring surprises that will take the society to greater heights. “Nigerian women and other women elsewhere have on different occasions proven that they can perform excellently in drawing policies and making decisions that could turn around the society; therefore they should be encouraged to unleash their best potential for the development of the entire society. “While condemning the inability of the national assembly to pass landmark legislations on women during the constitutional reforms, he used the opportunity of 2023 International Women’s Day to once more call on the federal lawmakers to consider and pass the Gender and Equal Opportunity Bill, CEDAW Domestication Bill and other bills supporting affirmative action like has happened in other developing countries in Africa, saying it will reduce gender-based violations and legally equip women to challenge the inequalities confronting them including Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (SGBV) which has continued to rear its ugly head in the society.” The executive secretary assured that the commission will not relent in promoting women’s rights in the country. “We have put different measures in place to address the issues relating to violence against women, even as he encouraged Nigerian women to remain focused on the struggle to achieve affirmative action,” he added.