President Muhammadu Buhari says the federal government will not rest on its oars until Nigerians are free from the menace of terrorism. Buhari spoke in Daura, Katsina state when he virtually inaugurated the 700 Ashok Leyland troop-carrying vehicles. The president also commended the role of the armed forces in maintaining law and order at the just concluded presidential and national assembly elections. He said the war against terrorism and criminality in the country would be sustained and boosted with supplies of hardware and better care for security agencies. “I wish to commend the resolve of our armed forces towards the defeat of insurgency and its support in maintaining law and order as was demonstrated in the just concluded presidential and national assembly elections,” he said. “I want to assure you all that your labour will not be in vain. The administration will continue to support you in every respect, including improving your welfare. “Moving forward, I charge you to consolidate on the gains we have achieved, towards sustaining the peace and stability of the country, “Let me firmly assure Nigerians that the federal government remains steadfast and committed to winning the war against insurgency and other criminalities. “Surely, the federal government will not rest on its oars until Nigeria and indeed Nigerians both at home and in the diaspora are free from the menace of terrorism and other forms of harm.” Buhari noted that the vehicles would increase the capability of the armed forces, especially their combat efficiency level. “I am pleased to be invited here today as the special guest of honour at the commissioning of the 700 Ashok Leyland troops carrying vehicles, procured by the Federal Government of Nigeria,” he said. “These vehicles, I understand, were assembled by Stallion Motors Limited at Ojo, Lagos. This is an important milestone in the annals of the armed forces of Nigeria, especially the troops engaged in operations in various theatres.” Buhari noted that in the past seven years plus, the federal government has been able to revitalise the armed forces for the full restoration of Nigeria’s territorial integrity. “Some of you may recall that in my inaugural speech as president, I promised to put an end to the Boko Haram insurgency which hitherto had posed a grave threat to Nigeria’s territorial integrity,” he said. “In fulfilling this promise, I made professionalism and capacity building of the armed forces a major security policy thrust of my administration. “Training and the acquisition of brand-new platforms and other supporting equipment for the armed forces of Nigeria and other security agencies were intensified. “The procurement process of military hardware was simplified, thereby removing inefficiency and corruption. “This was in practical fulfilment of my promise to re-professionalise and adequately equip our military so they could effectively discharge their constitutional responsibilities.” The president thanked Bashir Magashi, minister of defence; Lucky Irabor, chief of defence staff; and personnel of the armed forces for their achievements.