Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the governor of Lagos, says his administration has attracted billions of dollars into major infrastructure and manufacturing projects in the state. On March 11, Sanwo-Olu will contest with Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour of the Labour Party (LP), and Abdul-Azeez Adediran of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the governorship position. In a letter addressed to the resident of Eti-Osa, a highbrow area in the state on Monday, the governor urged the residents to vote for him to “continue this special journey of achieving our collective vision of a greater Lagos”. Sanwo-Olu said if voted for the second term, his administration would continue to serve with “diligence and seriousness” to make the state more prosperous. “As your governor for the last four years, I am asking you to please join hands with us to continue this special journey of achieving our collective vision of a greater Lagos. We have, over the last four years, left no one in doubt as to how deeply committed we are, in our quest to positively transform the fortunes of Lagos State on behalf of all its people,” he said. “Let me also say that, regardless of how we may have wanted the presidential elections to go, we are all united, as Lagosians, by the compelling dream of a greater Lagos. “This is why I am extending an invitation to you, to support this all-important task of bettering our state, by voting for me, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu on March 11. I promise to continue to serve you with seriousness and diligence, and to continue the journey toward Lagos, which is the most dynamic and prosperous state in the country. “There is so much that we have been able to accomplish over the last four years, and much more we can achieve over the next four, with your support. “The first phase of the Blue Line Rail has been completed, and the Red Line will equally be completed very soon. The Lekki-Epe Expressway is undergoing reconstruction from Ajah to Epe T-Junction; we have recently completed the section of it between Eleko Junction and Epe. “Work is at an advanced phase on the new Lekki regional road that will serve as an alternative to the Lekki-Epe Expressway, connecting Freedom way to VGC. We are investing in several new hospitals, upgrading our public schools, and empowering pupils and teachers with digital tools to improve teaching and learning outcomes. “We have attracted billions of dollars into major infrastructure and manufacturing projects in our dear state, including the newly commissioned Lekki Deep Sea Port, which will create tens of thousands of jobs and uplift the economy of Lekki. We are pushing ahead with the construction of the 4th Mainland Bridge that will connect Lekki to the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.” 