Afenifere, the Yoruba socio-political group, has urged Bola Tinubu, president-elect, to hit the ground running and live up to his words. In a congratulatory message signed by Jare Ajayi, the publicity secretary, Afenifere said a lot is expected from the incoming administration. “The incoming administration must hit the ground running with sustainable welfarist programmes, ousting terrorism and banditry, and putting an end to nepotism with round pegs in round holes,” Afenifere said in the statement issued on Friday. “The administration must bring down the hyper-inflation in the country, make sure fuels are available at very cheap prices and artificial bottlenecks in the financial sector resulting in cash crunch is removed. “It must create an atmosphere for all Nigerians to be able to realize their potentials wherever they are and without infringing on the rights of fellow Nigerians, especially natives of a given area as is happening in some parts of the country presently. “It is hoped that the Bola Tinubu government will not disappoint Nigerians. It will govern in a manner that will make citizens speak with pride at being a Nigerian as he promised in his acceptance speech. “We are confident that Tinubu has the capacity to accomplish these as he promised. “We are hopeful that he will be able to harness the requisite political and sundry other wills to give us a true federal Nigeria where people are truly in control of their affairs.” Afenifere described Tinubu’s victory as one that should further unify the country. “Garnering substantial votes from five of the six geo-political zones demonstrates that the mandate given to Tinubu and his vice, Sen. Kashim Shettima can re-invent Nigeria as a truly federal yet united country,” the group said. “A country in which every section and every citizen would have a sense of belonging without regard to any other consideration such as religion, language spoken or where the person comes from etc.” The group asked Tinubu to embark on policies that will heal “the deep wounds in the country” as soon as he is sworn in.