Oyeyemi Kale, former statistician-general of the National Bureau of Statistics(NBS), has been appointed as a partner and chief economist of KPMG Nigeria. KPMG Nigeria, in a statement on Thursday, said Kale enhance its solutions in economic modelling and macroeconomic analysis. “Kale will lead the firm’s view on macroeconomics and enhance the breadth of our solutions involving economic modelling & macroeconomic analysis, in private and public sector clients,” the statement reads. “He has deep experience, gained from both the private and public sector, in macroeconomic analysis, financial, economic, and investment research, and fiscal and macroeconomic policy advisory. From 2011 to 2021, he served as the statistician general of the federation and chief executive officer of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).” Kale graduated with a first-class degree in economics from Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia, and a distinction in his master’s programme at the same university. He later went for a PhD in economics at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), expanding his horizon and excellence. Born in 1975 by Aderonke Kale, a major-general and the first female two-star general in the Nigerian army, the economist has played key roles in the private and public sectors both locally and internationally. The brilliant economist was first noticed by Goldman Sachs, a global finance company, where he worked as an equity analyst. Kale later worked for several years as a quantitative analyst at Merrill Lynch Financial Services. From there, he became the group head of research and investment strategy at Investment Banking and Trust Company Plc (now Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc). He also served as a non-executive member on the boards of both Skye Financial Services Limited, and SFS Capital Nigeria Limited. In 2011, Kale was appointed by Goodluck as statistician-general of the federation and chief executive officer (CEO) of NBS. He was reappointed for a second term of five years by President Muhammadu Buhari until 2021.