Ike Ekweremadu, former deputy senate president, said he opted for a non-family kidney donor for his daughter, Sonia, following advice from Diwe, his brother who is a medical doctor. Ekweremadu disclosed the information on Thursday during cross-examination in a UK court where he is standing trial. The ex-senator and Beatrice, his wife, are facing charges bordering on organ harvesting and conspiracy to arrange and facilitate the travel of David Ukpo, a 21-year-old man. Sonia, who is standing trial alongside her parents, is said to be suffering from kidney disease and needs a transplant. The couple were arrested by the London Metropolitan Police in June 2022 and appeared before a magistrate court later in July. According to Daily Mail, when asked why he did not try to find a suitable match among his family members, Ekweremadu told the court that he was convinced it was better to seek an outsider, privy to a conversation between Diwe, his brother, and Obinna Obeta, a doctor residing in Southwark, south London. Obeta is also standing trial for allegedly plotting with the Ekweremadus to harvest a kidney for their daughter. Both Obeta and Diwe are said to be non-nephrologists. “On the question of whether a family member could in principle act as a donor, you decided that was not possible based on a reported conversation between your non-nephrologist brother and Dr Obeta, a non-nephrologist?” Hugh Davies, the prosecutor, asked. “He would have had basic knowledge. I’m not a doctor so if he says so, I believe him,” Ekweremadu replied. “All you had to do, rather than rely on a second-hand account from non-nephrologists, was to ask one of the specialists you were consulting whether a family member could donate a kidney,” Davies queried further, to which Ekweremadu answered that he had “limited intelligence”. “It is incredible. You do not lack intelligence,” Davies continued. “The fact is you did not even try to ask Sonia’s cousins, for example, to consider acting as a donor. “What you are saying is you had no intention of anyone in your family – immediate or extended – stepping up to donate a kidney to Sonia. “Far better to buy one and let the medical risk go to someone you don’t know. “The pattern of communication reflects none of the type of human communication and contact you would expect if you and your family had believed that (the proposed donor) was a good Samaritan.” Ekweremadu replied that Davies’ claims were “not true”. He further told the court that he sought to transfer his daughter’s clinical process from the UK to Turkey when another donor was required because the treatment is “cheaper” in Turkey.