Rotimi Amaechi, former minister of transportation, has asked Rivers residents to vote for Tonye Cole, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Amaechi spoke on Thursday when he visited traders and artisans in different parts of Port Harcourt, the state capital. He encouraged them not to sell their conscience, adding that Cole has the fear of God and will fulfil his promises if elected as governor. “Don’t let a politician buy your conscience. Once they buy your conscience, they leave you. Vote for the right person who will remember you,” he said. “With my knowledge of Tonye, he will keep to his promise. He will not abuse you or your parents. Those are not issues of governance. “Governance is a serious job, that’s why a governor is called ‘his excellency’. For you to be called Excellency, you must be an excellent man all round. An excellent man is honest. “So go and put your vote for APC and protect your votes. In the previous election, they told us to vote and go home, it will be uploaded, the next thing, they told us the BVAS failed. “This time, whether it fails or not, we will be there. The reason why you need to be there is, your life depends on who becomes governor of Rivers State, because you live here and do business here, so you have a right to choose who that person is. “I say to you again, any man who has no shame and does not have the fear of God, don’t vote for them. Tonye Cole has the fear of God. Vote for him.” While addressing traders at Ikoku spare parts market, he advised the people not to sell their votes. He said: “The problem with the masses is that tomorrow they can still come here and give you money to vote for them, you collect. Once you collect, it means they have paid you and they will close. “They can still come here and knock your shops down, you won’t do anything, because they have paid you. But if you refuse to collect and vote for the party that will change these things, then your future will be assured.” He advised the people to protect their votes on election day, saying “after voting, don’t go home. If you vote for the APC candidate, be rest assured that things will change. Tonye’s mother is Ikoku, therefore I doubt that Tonye will ignore you. I know he will not fail”.