The Ondo command of the south-west security network, Amotekun, says it has arrested Olamide Wasiu, a 35-year-old man, who allegedly stole over 100 motorcycles within the last three months. Adetunji Adeleye, commander of Amotekun, spoke on Monday at the command’s headquarters in Akure, the Ondo capital, while parading the suspect alongside others arrested for various criminal offences. Adeleye said the suspect belonged to a four-man syndicate that specialises in stealing and selling motorcycles within Ondo, Osun, Oyo and Ogun states. “Today, we have a number of suspects, out of which we selected a few that will be an eye opener to the public,” he said. “We have a syndicate that operates within Ondo, Osun, Oyo and Ogun states in the stealing of motorcycles. There is always a buyer who comes midway with a truck to harvest all the motorcycles that are stolen from Ondo state and are being carted away. “We have been on the track with the syndicate and we were able to apprehend the ring leader, Olamide Wasiu, who confessed that in the last three months, he has stolen over 100 motorcycles from Ondo state. “He confessed that his buyer comes from Ibadan to a forest around Ilesha where they offload the motorcycles, dismantle and pack them into the vehicle. “As we talk, the buyer is being tracked and our men are relating with other security agencies to assist in tracking down the buyer.” Adeleye said the security network also apprehended a group that specialises in kidnapping and terrorizing residents of Ore in Odigbo and Owo LGAs. “We were also able to break a four-man syndicate of kidnappers, we have the ring leader, Andaka Joseph, who confessed that they took the last victim that we tracked to their location and we arrested them right on the spot around Ore in Odigbo local government area and a host of other criminals on display here,” he said. “We also have a 41-year-old man, Adegoroye Oluwasegun, who is in possession of military hardware, cap and boot and some weapons with which they carry out robbery operations. “He was apprehended and on searching his house, we found out that he has three guns and we were able to establish that he hires out these guns to criminals for criminal activities.” Adeleye added that other forests linking Ondo state with other neighbouring states have also been put under surveillance by Amotekun.