Femi Falana, the human rights lawyer, has asked politicians to stop using ethnicity and religion to advance their political ambitions. In a statement on Monday, Falana castigated politicians for stoking tension in the country with ethnic and religious narratives instead of finding a resolution to the issue of voter apathy which he described as the “elephant in the room”. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), 93.4 million Nigerians registered to vote in the 2023 elections. Of the figure, 87.2 million collected their permanent voter cards (PVCs). However, only about 25 million voters showed up to vote on February 25 for the presidential and national assembly polls. “This trend of conspicuous voter apathy has been the elephant in the room which all the contenders in the post-February 25 debate seem to be ignoring,” Falana said. “The fundamental question for politicians of various hues in Nigeria is this: why did tens of millions of voters across Nigeria shun the elections? “The explanation does not lie in spreading prejudice by any side to the debate. Scapegoating any group will definitely not provide the answer. “But since the results of the February elections were announced, ethnic champions and religious bigots on all sides have given their respective interpretations of what happened. “The unfortunate development has caused unnecessary tension among people who as a matter of material imperative of their daily existence are bound to live in harmony in the various communities. “Having regard to the fact that many young people drawn from various ethnic groups voted according to their convictions and as a matter of constitutional right, it is misleading to subject any community to any form of hostility because of electoral choice. “It is sad to note that voters were subjected to degrading treatment in some states for voting for candidates of their choice during the last election. “Since the oppressed people are not involved in the diversionary politics of ethnicity and religion, the candidates of the ruling party and the opposition should be compelled to base their campaign on the crises of unemployment of young people, mass poverty, insecurity as well as lack of access to education, health and other social security. “Those who are playing the ethnic card should realise that voters are demanding dividends of democracy which have not been extended to them for the past 24 years of civil rule in the country.” The senior advocate of Nigeria (SAN) called on the police force to engage various stakeholders across the country to ensure peace ahead of the forthcoming governorship elections. “The police should not hesitate to arrest and prosecute the anti-democratic elements who are implicated in threatening fellow citizens on account of political differences,” he said. “Therefore, the human rights community will collaborate with the police to ensure that all registered voters in Nigeria are allowed to vote for the candidates of their choice without harassment or intimidation.”