Frances Ibanga, president of the women’s forum of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), says gender inequality is becoming alarming with the advancement of technology. Ibanga spoke on Wednesday at the women’s forum of the ECOWAS community court of justice to mark International Women’s Day (IWD). International Women’s Day is celebrated annually on March 8 to appreciate the social, economic, cultural, and political achievements of women across the world. She said an inclusive mindset and advocacy are needed to close the gender gap in the digital space. “Framework for the protection and promotion of the rights of women are provided for in the ECOWAS vice treaty and annex protocols and convention,” Ibanga said. “This day provides a useful opportunity to reinforce the fact that everyone has a role to play in forging a more gender-balanced world and the importance of treating women fairly and equally, without any bias or prejudice. “This theme – exploring the impact of the digital gender gap widening economic and social inequalities – aims to highlight the importance of protecting the rights of women in digital spaces and the need to address ICT gender-based violence. “Furthermore, technology and innovation are part of our everyday life.” The president said a 2020 report by the United Nations showed that seven percent of women don’t have access to the internet. She said the report revealed that women were underrepresented in tech-related careers, noting that they only occupied 22 percent of positions in artificial intelligence. “We needed to tackle our daily humanitarian challenges in every sphere of life be it business, education, or entertainment,” she added. “As technology advances, we see the wide digital divide between genders, and the divide has become the new face of gender inequality. “Let us, therefore, speak in one voice and ask in unison to protect the rights of women and girls in digital spaces as technology empowers women to capitalise on opportunities and express their opinions.” Commenting on the need to empower women with technology, Pauline Tallen, minister of women affairs, said more awareness should be created to give girls opportunities and access to the digital space. Tallen said digital education and inclusive technology for girls would help in achieving sustainable development goals. “A gender-responsive approach to innovation in digital education can increase the awareness of women and girls regarding rights and civic engagement,” she said. “Advancements in technology offer different opportunities, address development, and humanitarian challenges and achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development goals.”  