Bola Tinubu, president-elect of Nigeria, says he is ready to work with world leaders who have “extended the arm of friendship” following his victory at the presidential poll. Tinubu, candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), won 8,794,726 votes to defeat Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who had 6,984,520 votes and Peter Obi, Labour Party flagbearer, who polled 6,101,533. Congratulatory messages have been pouring in from world leaders since the announcement, with the United States of America and Rishi Sunak, UK prime minister, commending the APC standard bearer. Tinubu, in a tweet on Sunday, said the gestures from world leaders demonstrate the “important role Nigeria has in the world”. He described it as “an encouraging sign” that the rest of the world is interested in partnership with Nigeria. “The past few days have been a whirlwind for me and for many Nigerians. We have, through our electoral process, consolidated our democracy as a nation and, by the Grace of Almighty God, I have been given the mandate to lead the nation for the next four years as its President,” the president-elect said. “I deeply appreciate the congratulatory messages that have come in from friends and well-wishers from home and abroad. The messages of goodwill and solidarity have been so overwhelming for me to mention you all by name. “I am particularly grateful to many world leaders from our African neighbours, our friends in The Commonwealth, and from other parts of the world who welcomed my election with heartwarming messages. “The support and assurance I have received from the international community is a reminder of the important role Nigeria has in the world and an encouraging sign that the rest of the world remains interested in constructive and beneficial cooperation with the Federal Republic of Nigeria. As President-elect of this great nation, I say thank you. “To those who have extended the arm of friendship, I offer mine in return. This is a good time to believe in the Nigerian dream; a good time to believe in our renewed hope. The Nigerian eagle shall fly high.” Tinubu’s victory has not come without criticism with opposition political parties calling for the nullification of the result. Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) have declared their intention to challenge the result in court.