Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, has congratulated Bola Tinubu, president-elect, for winning the presidential election. In a congratulatory message on Thursday, the minister said Tinubu deserves every commendation, and wished that his victory will consolidate the policies of the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. “It has been a long and arduous journey, from the Primrose Circle, the Senatorial bid and victory, Justice Forum/June 12/NADECO struggle, to Sunday Adigun/BATCO Gubernatorial struggle and victory, the governorship experience and MANDATE era in Lagos, the resurgence of progressive tendency in Western Nigeria, consolidation of progressive influence in Nigeria and now the Presidency. You deserve every commendation as we equally give glory to God for His mercy,” Aregbesola said. “This victory is a call to duty. It is my wish that with this victory comes the consolidation of the eight years of massive infrastructure development and progressive policies of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, deepening of the democratic process, advancement of social democracy, promotion of party discipline and guaranteeing of better life for all. “Equally important is the need to ensure that Nigeria meets her historic responsibility to Africans and the Black Race as the leader of both entities. “I congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari, the leaders and members of our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), other parties that participated in the election and their candidates, for the keen contest and a successful election. “I pray that God will give you good health and the wisdom needed for a successful tenure in office.” Aregbesola and Tinubu used to enjoy a cordial relationship but the duo began to fall apart in May 2020, when the former Osun governor reorganised the Mandate Group — Tinubu’s core support group — without the latter’s approval. The rift between the duo was also worsened by the actions of Gboyega Oyetola, Aregbesola’s successor, who is related to Tinubu. In February 2022, while speaking in Oriade LGA of Osun on a campaign trail for Moshood Adeoti, his anointed candidate for the APC guber primary, Aregbesola blamed Tinubu for the crisis in the state APC, adding that Tinubu was exalted “beyond his status, and he turned himself to a god over us”. In March 2022, associates of the duo set in a motion a move to reconcile them.