Siminalayi Fubara, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers, says he will build on the achievements recorded by Nyesom Wike. In his 37-page manifesto, Fubara said good governance is the primary driver of human security and social progress, noting that he would run a participatory government to enable residents to relate directly with his administration. “Our duty and commitment are to consolidate and continue to deliver effective leadership to Rivers state and all who live in it to sustain and take the state to new development heights,” he said. He said his administration would “prioritise the state’s interest and run an effective, accountable, and participatory administration”. “Prioritise the welfare of citizens through responsive, caring, and inclusive governance. Keep the government right-sized, block resource leakages and ensure value for money spent on the delivery of projects and services,” Fubara said. “Provide interactive feedback mechanisms for citizens to relate with the government directly; and mobilise people and resources to advance our collective security progress and well-being.” ECONOMIC GROWTH The PDP candidate said industrialisation would be a key focus of his administration. “We must focus on engineering the reindustrialisation of Rivers state with appropriate policy, scale, and institutional measures in partnership with the private sector as the engine room of growth,” he said. Fubara said he would develop and implement a 10-year reindustrialisation masterplan to provide the road map for achieving the industrial transformation of the state while encouraging private investors to “take over and revive state companies”. INFRASTRUCTURE In the document, Fubara said he would build on Wike’s infrastructure projects to ensure that internal roads in all the LGAs are constructed. “There are still many more roads to be constructed to ease the movement of goods and services, advance economic growth, and improve the well-being of citizens,” he said. “Therefore, we shall sustain the new Rivers vision intensive road development programmes with more roads, bridges, and flyovers. Provide internal roads in all local government headquarters.” INVEST IN TECHNICAL EDUCATION Fubara said he would also lunch a research and development fund to support innovative research and development efforts in all the tertiary institutions in partnership with the private sector and international development partners. He said entrepreneurship, vocational and technical education (E-VoTE) would be prioritised to empower the youths with tangible skills and vocational training for self-development. He also pledged to establish the technical and vocational education board as well as regional technical colleges for tailored training and acquisition of applied skills to drive the advancement of technical and vocational education and training in the state. HEALTHCARE The PDP governorship candidate said he would increase the health budget to manage the state’s primary healthcare system efficiently. He said a healthcare intervention fund would be established to provide free healthcare services to pregnant and nursing mothers. Fubara said if he is elected, he would adopt a comprehensive women’s development policy to address the “multi-dimensional development challenges” faced by the women in the state. He added that his administration would promote gender equality, enforce all laws outlawing harmful and discriminatory cultural and other practices against women, and provide women with equal opportunity for education and economic and social development.