The Network for Promotion of Democracy in Nigeria, a coalition of 23 civil society organisations (CSOs), has commended the armed forces and the police for their roles in the peaceful conduct of the presidential and national assembly elections. On March 1, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared Bola Tinubu as the winner of the presidential election held on February 25. Addressing journalists on Monday in Abuja, Abel Abu, the convener, said the security agencies worked throughout the election period to tackle any impending threat. He commended the security forces for their “neutrality, impartiality, and professionalism” throughout the exercise. Abu said the security agencies were the “bastion of Nigeria’s democracy”. “It must be stated that, indeed, the just concluded Presidential and National Assembly Elections went down in history as one of the most keenly contested elections in the democratic experience in Nigeria,” he said. “That the elections have come and gone is a testament to the fact that democracy has indeed come to stay in Nigeria. This is on the heels that there were several attempts by agents of destabilisation to truncate the process, but for the intervention and professionalism of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “What most Nigerians might not know is the fact that the Armed Forces, in collaboration with the Nigerian Police and other security agencies, worked round the clock in analyzing and addressing the various security threats that were capable of undermining the electoral process. “It is indeed a victory for democracy that non-state actors such as the Boko Haram, Bandits, Eastern Security Network, and other criminal elements across the country were denied the opportunity to disrupt the electoral process. “This much was evident in the fact that Nigerians could exercise their electoral franchise without fear or favour in defense of democracy. The credibility of the electoral process is such that it has instilled confidence in Nigerians in their choices concerning the country’s leadership. The group implored the leadership of the armed forces not to be tired in the discharge of their duties during the post-election period. “They must continue to serve as the bastion of our democracy by ensuring that all threats posed by non-state actors and other criminal elements across the country are neutralized with the overarching objective of peace and tranquillity,” he added. 