Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says efforts will be made to “rebuild” the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after the general election. In a statement issued by Kelvin Ebiri, his special assistant on media, Wike spoke on Thursday at the inauguration of internal roads in Igwuruta, Ikwerre LGA of the state. The governor said he and “like minds” won’t leave the PDP, but stay to help rebuild it to become formidable. Wike said those who violated the provisions of the PDP constitution on the zoning of elective offices would be shown the way out of the party. “We have finished the first phase of the war, we are going (into) the second phase of the war,” he said. “In the second phase of the war, we must chase out the buccaneers and vampires. We are going to chase them out of the party, take our party and rebuild our party. “These people left our party in 2014/2015 and our party lost in the election. Again, they came back, our party lost again. They destroyed our party. We are going to chase them out of our party. They have no role to play in our party.” Wike said it is “hypocritical” for the national leadership of the PDP which “jettisoned” provisions of section 7 (3)c of the party’s constitution recommending rotation of elective and appointive offices, to accuse Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of not following its guidelines for the conduct of the 2023 general election. “You are blaming the INEC chairman that he did not follow the guidelines. You, did you follow our constitution? He who seeks equity must come with clean hands. Whatever you sow you will reap.” “I am an apostle of power shift. I fought for it. I have no apology to anybody. I said power must shift from the north to the south. I did not commit any anti-party. I fought for the unity of the country. Those of them at the national level in PDP committed anti-party. “When people abandon the provisions of the constitution of their party that talks about the zoning of elective and appointive offices, what is more anti-party than that? You refused to obey the constitution of your party because of impunity. “Because you think you have the number, you refused to obey the provisions of the constitution of your party.