The independent foreign observers’ mission in Nigeria has commended stakeholders and security agencies for their neutrality during the presidential and national assembly elections in the country. Stuart Young, head of the mission, in a report on Wednesday said the role played by security agencies and stakeholders was instrumental to the success of the polls. He said the polls were transparent, while stakeholders displayed a high level of responsibility. “We commend the Armed Forces and the Police for the display of professionalism throughout the period despite the avalanche of issues in Lagos, Kano, and other places hitherto regarded as hotspots during elections in Nigeria,” the report reads. “Our team of observers in Lagos and Kano buttressed the neutrality and professionalism of the military and other security agencies deployed during and after the elections. “It is our opinion that the professionalism displayed reflects the non-partisanship of the military leadership in Nigeria and the military’s role in preserving democracies in Africa and around the world. “We had a strong delegation in Lagos, Delta, Kaduna, Kano, and other states in the country’s South East and South South region. The reason was to ensure we garnered first-hand electoral process information. “There were no recorded cases of interference by the government or agents of government throughout the duration of the elections. Voters were not harassed or intimidated, but in a few cases where ballot boxes were either snatched or destroyed by warring factions. However, these situations were brought under control. “There were a few areas of concern regarding the late arrival of election materials. But it didn’t interfere with or change the course of the elections. It was observed that in those areas that witnessed the late arrival of election materials, none of the eligible voters was disenfranchised. “This was made possible by the commitment of the various stakeholders in the election process and at various locations across the country. “The Independent Foreign Observers Mission rates the election as transparent and reflects the people’s wishes. It is also a drastic improvement from previous elections conducted in the country. It commends the security agencies and other stakeholders that saw to the success of the elections.”