The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has announced a recruitment exercise for qualified Nigerians. The anti-drug agency made the call in a statement issued on Friday via its Twitter handle. The application will run from March 12 to April 8 and graduates of secondary school, polytechnic and university are invited to apply. Applicants must be of Nigerian origin by birth and possess a national identity number (NIN) while computer literacy will be an added advantage for all cadres, the statement said. Applicants are also required to tender all certificates at the time of recruitment as any other qualification presented subsequently will not be valid for career progression in the agency. The statement added that applicants must be medically fit and must produce a certificate of medical fitness from a government hospital. Candidates applying for the role of “superintendent cadre” must not be less than 20 years or more than 35 years while the age limit for “narcotic agent cadre” and “narcotic assistant cadre” is 30 years and not less than 18 years at the point of entry. The statement, however, noted that persons over 40 years applying for the role of “medical doctors” and “articulated vehicle drivers” will be considered. “Medical and allied professionals must possess current practising licences while lawyers must have been called to bar,” the statement reads. “Applicants must be drug free and also be of good character and must not have been convicted of any criminal offence. “Applicants must use their personal email address and phone numbers when submitting their applications online.” pic.twitter.com/TMX3wABRHx — NDLEA NIGERIA (@ndlea_nigeria) March 10, 2023  HOW TO APPLY Qualified candidates are required to visit the NDLEA webpage at www.ndlea.gov.ng, click on careers and read the instructions carefully. “Then click on “Apply Now” to register. You will be redirected to a page for the categories (select from list of categories),” the statement reads. Applicants will then be required to fill out the form and ensure all required documents listed below are uploaded: (1) Passport Photograph.
(2) Educational Certificates.
(3) Certificate of State of Origin.
(4) Birth Certificate/Declaration of Age.
(5) National Identity Card.
(6) NYC Discharge/Exemption Certificate. “Applicants must print out their online generated slip on completion of their application,” NDLEA said. “Successful candidates will be required to fill further vetting forms. All successful candidates will be subjected to random illicit drug use test throughout their service in the agency. “Only shortlisted applicants shall be invited for further examination and interview.” Multiple applications will lead to disqualification, the statement added.