Gift cards are preloaded digital assets that are created to act as an additional means of purchasing items at a specific brand when redeemed. These digital assets are much easier to use when shopping at the designated brand than cash or debit/credit cards. It is common knowledge that gift cards can be purchased abroad without stress. However, I still stumble upon questions like “Where Can I Buy Gift Cards in Nigeria?” occasionally. It seems there is still a bit of uncertainty about the possibility of purchasing gift cards in Nigeria  The two possible ways of buying gift cards in Nigeria are From the brand, and Outside the Brand. Buying your desired gift card from the designated store/ brand is one of the safest and easiest ways to get your hand on the gift card. You can either buy them Online or in Person. Online Head to the gift card website, for example; Amazon.com, or Apple.com, and search for gift cards. The site would show you exactly how to proceed and go about buying your desired gift card amount and quantity. In Person You can also buy your desired gift card by going to any of their physical locations in Nigeria and requesting a specific amount and quantity. For example; going to the Apple store and asking the cashier for gift cards. Note: If the gift card you want to buy is from an international brand, you may have difficulties using this method. Because most international brands don’t have physical locations in Nigeria or Nigerian websites. Because the majority of international brands do not have their official outlets in Nigeria yet, you might need to buy your gift cards outside the brand from verified resellers. Although thousands of these exist in the market currently, I would be recommending the best app to buy gift cards in Nigeria.  The best place to buy your gift card online is; Cardtonic.com. Cardtonic is the first place you should look at if you are considering buying gift cards online in Nigeria. This is a modern-day gift card exchange platform that allows you and other individuals to buy over 20 brands of gift cards, both local and international. The platform is completely safe, easy to navigate, and also ensures fast deliveries on all your purchases. Cardtonic is the best app to buy gift cards in Nigeria. One of the many reasons why this platform comes highly recommended is the fact that you are buying directly from them. For example, when you shop at e-commerce websites like Facebook marketplace, eBay, Konga, or Jumia, You are actually buying products from vendors on the platform just like yourself and not the brand. Meaning there is a possibility for you to encounter a fraudulent individual. Although, you can report their account on these sites. However, if you are looking for a stress-free, quick, and safe method of buying gift cards in Nigeria, Cardtonic is your guy. Some of the major gift card brands you can purchase on Cardtonic include; Things You Should Look Out For Before Buying Gift Cards Online Before buying gift cards on any online platform, there are certain things that the platform must possess. Some of these are; legitimacy and track record, social media presence, and a responsive customer support team. Gift cards help you make shopping as fun as possible, and they also serve as thoughtful presents for your loved ones. Now you do not only know that you can buy gift cards in Nigeria, but you also have knowledge of different approaches to take when you want to purchase them. Asides from purchasing at the brand, the best place to buy gift cards in Nigeria is Cardtonic. PLAY STORE: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cardtonic.app APPSTORE: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/cardtonic-sell-gift-cards/id1548466084 HELP CENTER: https://help.cardtonic.com