President Muhammadu Buhari says Babagana Zulum, governor of Borno, deserves to be re-elected. Buhari spoke on Thursday while inaugurating projects including, the Maiduguri emergency power project in the state. In a statement by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesperson, Buhari lauded Zulum for his developmental efforts. Buhari also thanked the governor for keeping his campaign promises to the people of the state. “Your Excellency, I cannot remember the number of projects I commissioned during your first tenure, these laudable projects are impressive. I thank you,” he said. “We also acknowledge the excellent work that you have done, working closely with the Federal Government and other stakeholders to bring back the IDPs and refugees from Cameroon and other neighboring countries. “I think the Governor deserves another term.” On the Maiduguri emergency power project, Buhari described the feat as another testament to achieving a stable, uninterrupted power supply aimed at improving the economy and lives of Nigerians. The gas plant was constructed by the Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited to supply 50 megawatts of electricity to Maiduguri and its environs. The president said his administration has worked hard to fulfill the promise of tackling the nation’s electricity challenges and has succeeded in laying the foundation for a strong, prosperous country through the economic recovery and growth plan (ERGP). Buhari noted that a key execution priority of the ERGP is ensuring national energy sufficiency for Nigerians. “The Maiduguri Emergency Power Project is part of an incremental 4,000MW of power generating assets that this administration embarked upon to improve national power supply and stimulate economic growth,” he said. “The aggressive project strategy deployed to complete this project on schedule is a total reflection of Federal Government sensitivities in identifying and easing the plight of the Nigerians.” Buhari noted that over the past years, insurgents have attacked power supply lines along Maiduguri-Damaturu and Maiduguri-Damboa-Biu roads, leading to acute power supply shortages to the city of Maiduguri and its environs, and also crippling the economic activities in the region. “For this purposeful response, I want to commend the NNPC Ltd for following my directive to ensure the immediate restoration of reliable power supply to Maiduguri within the shortest possible time,” he said. The President reassured Nigerians of the federal government’s resolve to implement programmes, particularly in the power sector, that would deepen domestic gas utilisation to expand national power generation capacity, revitalise industries and create multiple jobs for economic growth. He directed the ministry of power, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading (NBET) Plc, and the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) to continue to collaborate with NNPC Ltd to ensure that millions of Nigerians access affordable electricity in the short term. He expressed confidence that the “undaunting spirit” of the new NNPC Ltd would continue to provide affordable energy for all Nigerians. Buhari also inaugurated the dualised Ahmadu Bello way; Shehu Sanda Kura road; Lafiya road; Mogoram road; ultra-modern market and Bama road. Other projects inaugurated included the newly constructed staff quarters for the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital; Muktar Betara Aliyu Cancer Centre, and the newly constructed Bolari market road. Zulum, a professor of engineering, was elected in 2019 on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the governor of Borno. He is seeking a second term in the March 11 election.