The Labour Party (LP) in Rivers state has endorsed Siminalayi Fubara, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), for the March 11 election. In a communique issued on Tuesday, the party said Rivers south-east (Fubara’s district) has never had the opportunity of producing a governor, noting that the situation negates equity and fairness. The communique was jointly signed by Dienye Pepple, Rivers LP chairman; Amado Solomon, publicity secretary; and Favour Reuben, member of the board of trustees. The Rivers LP leaders said voting for Fubara ensures that LP and its members are “defenders and ambassadors of the values that have set her Obidient movement apart from all others parties”. “In the past few days, the party in the state was hit by a major shock of an unknown person surfacing and claiming to be our Gubernatorial Candidate, coupled with the news making rounds on social media that our Gubernatorial candidate Comrade Mrs Beatrice Itubo has stepped down and adopted the APC candidate,” the communique reads. “In order for us not to remain in the dark, the party in line with the 23 LGA’s chairmen has decided to support a credible candidate irrespective of the party affiliation, a candidate who must be young and vibrant and must hail from the senatorial district that hasn’t produced a governor before in the state “All through the history of this great and outstanding state, the Rivers West district has produced the governor once in the person of Sir. (Dr.) Peter Odili. “The Rivers East District has produced the Governor thrice, while the district of Rivers South East has never had this opportunity, thereby flouting and negating the values of Equity, Fairness, Justice, and Balance. Values that are both foundational and intrinsic to the Labour Party. “As Labour Party Members, and as Obidient adherents to the aforementioned values, we must come out and support a region that has never in the history of the state produced a Governor. “Voting a Riverine candidate in the person of ‘Sir. Siminialayi Joseph Fubara from the South East Senatorial district of the State during the upcoming Gubernatorial polls, ensures that The Labour Party and her members are defenders and ambassadors of the values that have set her and the Obidient Movement apart from all other parties. “The Labour Party Considers this decision both fundamental and intrinsic to the stability, progress and growth of Rivers State and by intractable extension- Nigeria.” The party urged all LP supporters to come out en masse to vote “without fear” for Fubara, and vote for all other LP candidates for the state assembly positions. RIVERS LP CRISIS Before the endorsement of Fubara, there had been controversy in the Rivers chapter of the party. Fafaa Princewill recently declared himself as the governorship candidate despite the fact that Itubo Beatrice is recognised by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Members of Princewill’s camp alleged that his name was submitted to INEC following a February 2 court judgement that recognised him as the LP candidate. Itubo however dismissed the claims from Princewill’s camp, saying she remains the authentic candidate of the party. “I want to state categorically that I am the Labour Party governorship candidate in Rivers state. The party has not changed my name,” Itubo told TheCable. “You can check INEC if my name has been replaced. I’ve told my lawyer to contact him, I am not even bothered. I have told my supporters not to be distracted but to come out and vote for us. “All he is trying to do is cause distraction among our teeming members. The only work for us is to tell people that I am still in the race. Labour party knows their candidate. INEC knows the candidate. So, there’s no point for that distraction.” Yunusa Tanko, the LP national campaign spokesperson, also told TheCable that Itubo is the candidate recognised by the party.