The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Katsina has sacked Rabe Darma, running mate of Nura Khalil, governorship candidate of the party in the state. The party also expelled other executives in the state, including Sani Liti, state chairperson; Umar Jibril, secretary; Mustapha Basheer, youth leader; Dauda Kurfi, zonal chairperson; Abdulhadi Mai-Dawa, Funtua zonal chairperson; Sale Mashi, Daura zonal chairperson and Audu Yandoma. Briefing journalists on Thursday in Katsina, Nasiru Usman-Kankia, NNPP director of media and publicity, said the expelled members were involved in alleged anti-party activities. TheCable had reported Darma endorsed Dikko Radda, candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state. Usman-Kankia said the sacked members convened an “illegal meeting” to form an alliance with the APC. “As you are already aware, a section of the state executive leadership of the party convened an unauthorised meeting on Thursday, March 9, the decision of which almost rocked the party,” he said. “An emergency exco meeting comprising 19 out of 29 members was conveyed to discuss the immediate and remote causes of the illegal meeting. “Facts have emerged that the illegal meeting was unconstitutionally convened without the consent of the state executive committee. “It was also discovered that even when invitations were sent for the illegal meeting to state and local government exco members and ward chairmen, they were informed that the purpose of the meeting was to discuss and disburse funds for the settlement of polling unit agents and ward coordinators. “However, at the illegal meeting, the APC gubernatorial candidate was ushered in and the NNPP state chairman, Liti, the party’s gubernatorial running mate, Rabe Darma, and other top executives introduced other members present as decampees to the APC. “Almost immediately, the entire arena turned chaotic with shouts of NNPP slogans and chants of no, no, no, by the party’s loyalists.” Usman-Kankia said members of the NNPP had been warned not to endorse or form an alliance with any other party. “Accordingly, party officers, members and candidates at all levels are not authorised to discuss, negotiate or form any alliance with any political party to win the upcoming gubernatorial and legislative polls,” he said. “Anyone who endorses a candidate of another political party will be sanctioned in line with the NNPP Constitution, ranging from suspension to expulsion. “Our emergency meeting considered and decided to expel the officials and members involved in the illegal meeting, subject to the approval of the national executive committee of the party.”