Umo Eno, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa-Ibom state, says becoming a governor is his calling and not an ambition. In an interactive session with journalists, on Thursday, Eno said if he is elected governor of the state in the March 11 election, he will focus on massive rural development and invest in primary health care. The former commissioner of lands and water resources said his administration will also collaborate with the security agencies to give the residents adequate protection along the waterways. “Having lived and done business here for over 25 years, I can say that things have changed remarkably. In deed, Udom Emmanuel has done a lot in the area of industrialisation. That is why we now want to connect the dots and ensure that there is a trickle-down effect of the infrastructure and industries on the people,” Eno said. “Becoming governor for me is a calling, not an ambition. I believe that God at any point in time controls the destinies of men. I believe that with my experience, expertise and track record, I have so much to offer our people by serving as their governor. And we have very clear short, medium and long term plans. “Our current government, like I said earlier, is investing heavily on infrastructure. For example, it has done major roads, set up Ibom Air and facilitated the setting up of many industries. We will be all about jobs, jobs and more jobs.The next government would provide jobs in so many ways. “We will put resources into the completion of the Science Park which was started by Victor Attah, former governor. We will promote the knowledge economy by also funding and creating ICT hubs that will engage our talented youths. We will award grants and as well as, low interest loans to SMEs. “My vision is to deliver a prosperous state with ease of doing business. We want to create a state every Akwa Ibom person will have a sense of belonging and where every part of the state will be developed based on comparative advantage.” Eno said his economic blueprint, which is included in his ARISE Agenda, will cover agricultural revolution, infrastructural renewal and maintenance, women and youth empowerment, ICT development, security management, sound education, healthcare sector management, sports and tourism development, reorganisation and upskilling of the civil service as well as wealth creation.