Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, has urged leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), to support the re-election bid of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos. On March 18, Nigerians will go to the polls to elect new governors across 28 states of the federation and state assembly members. Sola Fasure, media adviser to the minister, said in a statement on Monday that a win for Sanwo-Olu would attract massive developmental support from Bola Tinubu, the president-elect to Lagos. NAN reports that the minister urged them to ensure the victory of the party by embarking on mobilisation as well as door-to-door campaigns. He advised the party members to return to their “various units, wards, and communities to work for the party”. Aregbesola urged them to put all grievances behind them and work in unison for the success of the party. “It is important to let you know that we cannot allow those who have not been with us since the days of the struggle from SDP, AD, AC, ACN, and now APC to take what belongs to us,” the statement reads. “We worked tirelessly for the success of what we have today in Lagos. We cannot allow those fanning the embers of discord within the party to derail us. “Let us forget whatever may be the issue and work for the success of the party in the March 18 governorship and the house of assembly elections. “Winning Lagos is not just about shutting the doors to those who do not have the capacity to rule us but to ensure we crown all that Sen. Bola Tinubu has achieved so far. “Especially now that he is the president-elect, to the benefit of our party, and the generality of the people of Lagos state.” Meanwhile, Eze Nwachukwu and Prince Anselem Echelwu, representing the Igbo Mandate Group, said the group and their members were ready to vote and ensure the party’s victory. “We have mobilised all our members in every ward and Local Government Area in Lagos state to come out en mass and vote for all APC candidates in the forthcoming elections,” they said. “We won’t disappoint, we will deliver.”