Bernard Odoh, the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Ebonyi, has been declared wanted by the police. Odoh and nine other persons were on Monday declared wanted in connection with the murder of Ezeogo Igboke Ewa. Gunmen killed Ewa, the traditional ruler of Umuezekoha community in Ezza North LGA of Ebonyi, in his home on February 26. Reacting to the allegation of complicity, the governorship candidate said the claims were malicious, baseless, spurious and should be disregarded. Odoh said he has secured an order from an Owerri high court restraining the police or their agents from arresting or harassing him. He said those listed as wanted in the police publication were APGA supporters and members of Umuezekoha community. “Nigerian law still presumes an accused person innocent until proven guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction,” he said. “I have already obtained an order: HOW/194/2023 from a high court in Owerri dated March 3, restraining the police and other security agencies from harassing or arresting me until the matter before the court is determined. “The inspector-general of police (IGP) and other security agencies have been served with the court order accordingly. “The IGP upon being served the said order stopped all actions in the matter concerning the court, but the commissioner of police in Ebonyi has continued to take action contrary to the orders of court. “Further, the family of the late Ezeogo filed a suit No. HBA/47MC/2023 alleging that the commissioner of police in Ebonyi has been compromised by failing to arrest me. “Ebonyi high court has not determined the matter, yet the commissioner of police in Ebonyi continued to take steps over the sub-judice matter. “I am not on the run and cannot be said to be on the run for any reason whatsoever, but pursuing and seeking the resolution of the false and misleading allegation brought against me through legal and peaceful means. “The allegations are politically motivated and intended to undermine my chances of winning the March 11 governorship election in Ebonyi. “I sympathise with the family of the traditional ruler over this very painful, unfortunate and tragic loss. “I reiterate my earlier position in the media that I know nothing and absolutely nothing about the assassination of my traditional ruler.” Odoh urged his supporters to remain calm and resolute in their support for him to win the gubernatorial election. TheCable had reported on February 3 that gunmen attacked the convoy of Odo while returning from a rally in the state.