A magistrate court sitting in Kano has remanded Alhassan Doguwa, majority leader of the house of representatives, in prison. Doguwa was charged to court on Wednesday over alleged criminal conspiracy, culpable homicide, unlawful possession of a firearm, mischief, and public disturbance. Ibrahim Mansur Yola, the magistrate, remanded the federal lawmaker till March 7, 2023, for a hearing of the bail application. The prosecutor, Aisha Salisu, told the court that  Doguwa and one Bashir Dahiru committed the offence on February 26, at Tudun Wada local Government area of Kano. Salisu said the lawmaker used a gun and shot one Ibrahim Dauda to death and injured two persons on their legs and hand. “The defendants conspired with five others now at large and conducted themselves in a manner to cause a breach of public peace and burnt the office of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Tudun Wada Dankadai,” she told the court. “Two persons lost their lives at the said NNPP office, while six persons sustained various injuries.” The prosecutor urged the court not to admit the defendants to bail, “for public policy, tranquility, and interest of justice”. “Any person accused of committing capital offence which attracts severe punishment cannot be granted bail,” she said. On Tuesday, Doguwa was arrested at the Mallam Aminu Kano international airport while boarding a flight to Abuja. He was arrested after police received a report that he led thugs to set ablaze the secretariat of the NNPP in Kano, with two persons feared dead Earlier on Tuesday at a media briefing, Doguwa denied the allegation that supporters of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), were responsible for the fire that gutted the secretariat of the NNPP in Tudun Wada LGA of the state. During the briefing, Doguwa also said he learnt that the police were looking for him but said he had not received any formal invitation. “I never held a gun. I don’t even know how to hold a gun. I also never held any weapon throughout the election,” he had said.