Pat Utomi, professor of political economy, has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to review the presidential election results in 10 states. Utomi is the convener of BIG-TENT, a coalition of political parties, social movements, and civil society organisations (CSOs) in support of Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP). He spoke at a news conference on Friday in Lagos. The professor listed the states as Lagos, Rivers, Imo, Benue, Nasarawa, Plateau, Kaduna, Katsina, Adamawa, and Akwa Ibom. Utomi also asked INEC to cancel the election if a review failed and if the courts did not pronounce the “true winner” after investigations. “We want to urge INEC to show good faith and not wipe their server of activities of the  Feb.  25 presidential election in the excuse of having it ready for March 11,” he said. “We also want to request that INEC administratively begin a review of the votes in 10  states. “All we seek is sunlight. We accuse none and come with malice toward none but are assured that our children will have better tomorrow if we ensure that sunlight and transparency define our electoral ways. “We ask for an INEC review. If this fails to bring justice then a court process to reverse rigging and call the true winner. “Where that is difficult for the system, we call for outright cancellation of the election of Feb. 25, and ensuring that enthusiasm allowed to flow through to March 11 with assurance of a free, fair and transparent election.” The BIG-TENT convener asked INEC to assure Nigerians that the bimodal voter accreditation system (BVAS) would be functional ahead of the March 11 gubernatorial election. He said the INEC leadership must be replaced if the commission cannot prove that the guber election would be different, adding that the essence of democracy is respect for the will of the people. Utomi knocked politicians who use thugs to perpetrate violence on election days, adding that because they go free, election results are continuously doubtful. Bola Tinubu of the All Progressive Congress (APC) was declared the winner of the presidential election. LP and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have, however, challenged the credibility of the results.