Aisha Buhari, wife of the president, has asked Nigerians to keep diversity and interest aside and accept the victory of Bola Tinubu, the president-elect, as the will of God. NAN reports that Aisha spoke on Thursday when she received Oluremi Tinubu and Nana Shettima, wives of the president-elect and vice-president at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. She said Tinubu’s victory in the election was a triumph for all Nigerians, assuring that he would not betray the citizens. “Regardless of our interests and diversity, we should all accept it as a will of Almighty God, we wouldn’t have done it without his grace,” Aisha said “It is a victory for all Nigerians. I am optimistic that the president-elect will not betray the trust and confidence that Nigerians reposed in him. It is now time to move on and focus on the path of renewed hope for Nigerian women and youths. “So, my sister we count on your experience and interest in promoting the cause of women, youths, and girl-child education.” She encouraged the wife of the president-elect to continue to provide support for women and girl-child empowerment in the country. “The task is arduous but with your determination I believe is surmountable. I pray that come May 29, your position as first lady will be marked with joy and continued success,” she added. “We look forward to the advancement of Nigerian women and their inclusion in the affairs of our nation’s development. While commending the wife of the president for her role in the success of the presidential election, Oluremi Tinubu said that Aisha has demonstrated her motherly duty to the country through courage and wisdom. “We want to thank you sincerely for how you’ve been able to bring us together as a campaign team for the APC, especially the women’s presidential campaign team. You really showed a lot of wisdom, dexterity, and courage in the way you put us together,” she said. “I remember coming here to ask for your permission and also to solicit support when we were about to begin the campaign. “As you’ve come here safely, you will live in your home in good health, divine health, and whatever you decide to do; God will be there with you, thank you so much for the love you have shown to us.” The presidential and national assembly elections were held on Saturday across the country. Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) was declared the winner after scoring the highest votes of 8,794,726. 