BlackHouse Media (BHM), Lagos-based reputation management and marketing communications firm, has been nominated for the ‘Africa PR Consultancy of the year award’ at SABRE Awards EMEA. This would be the third consecutive time the company has been nominated in the same category. The SABRE Awards Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) benchmark the best PR work from across the globe. Winners of the 2023 SABRE Awards EMEA will be announced in Frankfurt, Germany on March 23, 2023. In a statement on Friday, the company said it was also nominated for 15 other categories for “work done across owned and client projects in the past year”. According to BHM, the recognition is not far-fetched from its commitment to empowering employees through thought leadership, innovation and insights, and its sharpened focus on modernising media relations in the face of new ways of communication. “BHM, a $6.2 million operation offering diverse public relations and communication services, has a client roster,” the stament reads. “This includes leading Pan-African streaming company, Showmax; Nigeria’s largest brewer NB PLC; global investment company, Honeywell Group; Africa’s leading telecommunications firm, MTN; Nigeria’s largest media and entertainment company MultiChoice DSTV; retail supermarket chain, Shoprite; and Premium Single Malt Whiskey The Macallan, leading to a 55 percent increase in business over the past year.” Speaking on the recognition, Ayeni Adekunle, BHM founder, said being the highest to be recognised in Africa is as good as winning. “Each of these nominations is as important as winning, considering we are just a little Lagos company trying to give the world an alternative global communications platform — the first from Africa. Still a long journey ahead but we are inspired, encouraged and committed. It is possible,” Adekunle said. “BHM is the only nominee from Nigeria this year and the highest African nominee. For three consecutive years, the firm has been acknowledged in the same category for its pioneering vision in building a multifaceted global PR and communications consultancy out of Africa.” Last year, BHM was ranked as the third fastest-growing agency in Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Africa (APMEA), according to PRovoke Global PR Agency Rankings, ‘Fast Mover 2022’.