Chimaroke Nnamani, senator representing Enugu east, says the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should ignore an alleged request by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to remove his name as the candidate for the senatorial district. The PDP had expelled Nnamani, a former governor of Enugu state, over alleged “anti-party activities”. He is challenging the expulsion in court. The senator publicly supported Bola Tinubu, president-elect, in the just concluded presidential election. Election for the Enugu east senatorial district has not been held due to the killing of Oyibo Chukwu, the Labour Party (LP)  candidate. In a letter dated February 22 and addressed to Mahmood Yakubu, chairman of the INEC, Olusegun Jolaawo, counsel to Nnamani, said it has come to their knowledge of a move by PDP’s national working committee (NWC) to remove or replace his name as candidate of the senatorial district. “It has come to the knowledge of our Client that the National Working Committee of the PDP are trying to change/remove him as the candidate of the PDP for the 2023 general elections for Enugu east senatorial district following his alleged expulsion from the party and that they have written to the Commission to effect the said changes to prevent our Client from participating in the election,” Jolaawo said while citing provisions of the law. “The removal/change of our Client as the candidate of the PDP for the Enugu East Senatorial Election is predicated on the purported expulsion of our Client from the party which is a subject of litigation pending before the Federal High Court in Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/163/2023 between SENATOR CHIMAROKE NNAMANI VS PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC PARTY (PDP) & 20RS., wherein our Client is challenging and seeking to set aside his purported expulsion from the party. “More important is that our client in the said suit is also seeking an order of injunction against the commission from recognizing and acting upon his purported expulsion from the party by the NWC. “Following the above provisions, the powers of a political party to solely remove or change its candidate following the submission and publication of his name by the commission is restricted only to instances of withdrawal or death of the candidate which is not applicable in the present circumstance. “Accordingly, we most humbly urge the commission to discountenance the request of the NWC of the PDP to remove/change our Client as the candidate of the PDP for the 2023 General Election for the Enugu East Senatorial District following his alleged expulsion from the party. “We trust that the commission will be properly advised by the terms of our letter herein in taking a position that fosters the rule of law among the parties herein, and especially not to undermine the powers and authority of the court.”