Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has asked Nigerians not to vote for politicians who have “blind vision” for the country. He said this on Saturday during the APC rally in Gusau, the Zamfara capital. He said such politicians are “misguided”, and do not want greatness for Nigeria. “Their vision for Nigeria is the vision of one who cannot see,” he said. “They seek to enrich themselves by making you poor. They want to eat everything so that you might go hungry. They want to own everything but leave you with nothing. “We stand here today to affirm that our vision for a greater Nigeria will triumph over their blind vision for a broken Nigeria. Remember, where there is blind vision, there is also blind ambition. “We will not allow their selfish games to overtake you. President Buhari has done his part to free Nigeria from their mean grip. Now we must do our part by freeing you from the selfish plans they have for you and our beloved land. “Do not let those others fool you into returning to the past where you had no hope and had no say regarding the life you shall live and the future you shall enter. The APC remains the best and only hope for a more prosperous and peaceful nation.” He also assured Zamfara residents that he will tackle insecurity if he becomes president. “If Allah blesses us to win this election, we will not relent until we beat this problem,” he continued. “My running mate has battled Boko Haram. As governor of Lagos, I too have fought kidnappers and violent criminals. We will use our experience and our vision to defeat the wrongdoers. “My security plan will empower all branches of security forces. There will be more personnel and we shall improve their ability to identify, pursue and stop the evil-doers. We will use modern air and ground technology to trace and capture these criminals. “Zamfara State has great deposits of natural resources. My economic plan is to closely cooperate with the state government to attract the right type of investment in mining. This investment will not exploit the people of Zamfara. Instead, it will open the door to safer mining, better jobs and increased economic growth for the state.” Tinubu also dismissed claims that his relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari has hit the racks. “I have supported President Buhari even before his first day in office. I will continue to be his supporter and friend after his last day in office,” he added.