Labour unions in Lagos state have thrown their weight behind Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos. Sanwo-Olu is seeking another term in office. The unions — Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) — own the Labour Party which has Peter Obi, a former governor of Anambra, as its presidential candidate. They endorsed the APC candidates at a rally in Lagos state on Thursday. Speaking at the rally, Funmilayo Sessi, chair of the NLC in Lagos, said they want Sanwo-Olu to continue in office because of his “good works”. “We made the decision before today but we only came out to display our solidarity with him publicly. What we have done right in our house, we are showing to the world,” Sese said. “This is the first time the organised labour in Lagos is taking an open position to endorse the candidate of a political party. We have come out with our full chests because this government has done good things for us. “We are also endorsing Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the position of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We will vote for him.” BREAKING NEWS: The Organized Labour in Lagos today came out boldly to endorse Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu @officialABAT for President and Mr @jidesanwoolu for 2nd term as Governor at a special Rally today at the Police College, Ikeja. #SanwoLekansi #BAT2023 #SanwoAgain pic.twitter.com/C5CD2Ed0vR — Jubril A. Gawat (@Mr_JAGs) January 12, 2023  On his part, Segun Balogun, speaking on behalf of the Public Servants Joint Negotiating Council, said Sanwo-Olu has been a friend to workers in the state. “I can say it with all sense of responsibility, you have kept your promise. You promised workers would not be sacked during COVID and you kept to that promise,” Balogun said. “You have put your name in gold for being the first governor to pay above the minimum wage. Each time you engage labour, you always keep the interest of labour at the front burner. “We have made up our minds to follow you.” Gbenga Ekundayo, TUC chairman in the state, said the governor has “listening ears and a large heart to accommodate us”. “There is no need to beat about the bush. You have heard it well. Each time we meet Mr. Governor, he responds to us. Democracy is about inclusion,” he said.