President Muhammadu Buhari says Boko Haram was a “fraudulent plot to destroy Nigeria”. According to NAN, the president said this on Wednesday when the executive members of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) visited the Aso Villa in Abuja. He said the state of insecurity in the country has improved significantly and that the gains recorded will be further consolidated before he leaves office. “I am very grateful for your visit to the Presidential Villa, and I agree with you on some of the observations you have made,” he said. “The question of insecurity is most important to us because unless a country or institution is at peace, it will be difficult to manage. “I just came back from Adamawa and Yobe states. During the visit to both states, I listened carefully to what the people and officials had to say. And they all said the situation had improved since 2015, especially in Borno. “Boko Haram was just fraudulent and a plot to destroy Nigeria. You can’t say people should not learn; the people need to grow intellectually.” He told the bishops that his government will continue rebuilding infrastructure in parts of the country affected by insurgent attacks. Speaking on the economy, the president said Nigeria is credit worthy and “that’s why the countries and institutions agreed to support our development with the loans”. “If you look at the economy, we are trying hard to rely more on ourselves. Nigerians rely more on agriculture for livelihood, and we are putting in our best to enable more people, and diversify,” he added. “We thank God that Nigeria is still one. We should not forget that more than a million died for the nation to survive. We should reflect on these things and thank God more.” Lucius Ugorji, the president of the CBCN who led the delegation, asked Buhari to use his remaining months in office to tackle insecurity, improve the economy, and ensure credible elections. “We commend and congratulate you for the efforts the government has put into ensuring real improvement in our electoral system and processes, especially your signing into law the electoral bill,” the cleric said. “Please, do not relent in making sure that INEC and other relevant agencies of government carry out their serious duties to conduct peaceful, free, fair, and credible elections. “The main crux of our message to you today is one of fervent appeal and strong encouragement. “Your tenure of two terms as president, commander-in-chief of Nigeria, is drawing to an end. But we believe a lot can be done to turn things around for the better in the about four months left of your presidency before you step down in May 2023. “We have seen some signs that the government is not entirely incapable of tackling the sad state of insecurity in the land, which has consumed thousands of innocent Nigerians across all religions, creed, and ethnic groups.”