The Ondo government has reacted to trending speculations over the health status of Rotimi Akeredolu, the state governor. In a statement on Tuesday, Richard Olatunde, Akeredolu’s chief press secretary, said the governor had some health challenges but has received treatment. “We have observed the growing anxiety about the State of Health of the Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, CON. The good people of the State and, by extension, other friends and well-wishers continued to express concern over the wellness of the Governor, especially since yesterday, the statement reads,” the statement reads. “We are constrained to respond to these concerns and assure our people that by the grace of God, there is no cause for alarm on the Governor’s state of health. “Governor Akeredolu, just like every other mere mortals, has had some health challenge for which he has since received treatment and recuperating speedily. Since the Governor is not a super human and the immunity his office enjoys does not extend to physical wellness or otherwise, the health issue is therefore not an unusual one. “However, contrary to speculations and insinuations making the round, the Governor though frail, is discharging his official functions.  Mr. Governor is not faced with any life-threatening illness that would have encouraged any alleged conspiracy in his administration.” Olatunde added that up until January 11, the governor was physically present at state functions and events of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). “He, in fact, held Executive Council meeting with the Exco members till 4pm on Wednesday, 11th January, 2023, after the Security Council meeting where far reaching decisions were taken on the escalated clashes in Ikare-Akoko,” the statement reads. “On January 7, 2023 Governor Akeredolu led his brother Governors in the Southwest and other party bigwigs to receive the Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akure for the State Presidential Campaign Rally. “On January 8, 2023, he was at The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Jesus House Cathedral, Region 22 Headquarters, Oke-Ijebu, Akure, for the Holy Service commemorating the 2023 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration. “While we appreciate the growing concerns about his wellbeing and indeed, appreciate the outpour of prayers even beyond partisan lines, we urge all persons of goodwill to ignore unfounded insinuations capable of creating any false sense of needless anxiety.”