Peter Obi, the standard bearer of the Labour Party (LP), says if he is elected president, he will “destroy the structure” that has kept Nigerians in poverty. Obi said this on Monday while speaking at the Chatham House in the United Kingdom. The LP candidate also said his administration will fight the structure and “big boys” who prevent the power sector from functioning properly. “Let me assure you of what we’ve been campaigning on. You have heard them say we don’t have structure; that is the structure we are trying to destroy — structure of criminality,” Obi said. “That is what I’ve mentioned that Nigeria has been held captive. That structure that has impoverished Nigeria, we will dismantle it. It will not be there; I assure you of that. “Going to turn around the power sector — Nigeria generates about five to six thousand megawatts of electricity for 200 million people. And South Africa, the second biggest in terms of economy on the continent — 60 million people — generates about 40,000 to 50,000, and South-Africa in the past three months has declared emergency on power and said anybody can generate up to 100 megawatts without licence. “So, somebody who is 60 million, generating about over 40,000, declared emergency, what do you think somebody with 200 million people generating five to six thousand would do? War. “I’m going to declare war on power and I will solve it. Anybody who stands in the way, so be it.” The former Anambra governor also said if elected, his administration would create a suitable platform to attract foreign investors into the country. “Bringing back foreign investors is like bee and honey. What you need is to create honey; where the bee would find the place is very simple. Foreign capital is scared of corruption, is scared of board policies, is scared of where there is no rule of law,” he said. “You need to put a regulatory environment that makes it conducive; you need to secure it. That is at the heart of what Datti and I are offering. “We will build intangible assets of securing the country, making sure that we govern through rule of law. We will fight corruption.”