The All Progressives Congress (APC) chapter in Zamfara has accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of threatening the peace in the state. Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday in Gusau, capital of the state, Yusuf Idris, APC publicity secretary, said the opposition party was promoting political violence. “As we are all aware, the governorship candidate of the opposition PDP in the state has returned following the court of appeal judgment reinstating him last Friday,” Idris said. “This led to the return of PDP activities and the threatening the peace and stability hitherto enjoyed by the citizens of our dear state. “That also led to the incident that occurred last Monday when some suspected PDP thugs burned down a vehicle laminated with governor Bello Matawalle’s pictures. Fortunately, the suspect that allegedly committed the ugly act said he acted on the instructions given to them by the PDP to burn all APC-logo-carrying vehicles in the state. “The suspect, Yusuf Aminu, from Gangaren, ‘Yar Rumfa area of Gusau through a video clip, told the police he committed the act to the satisfaction of his candidate, Dauda Lawal-Dare.” Idris said the APC members in the state have always supported security agencies in maintaining peace. “We want to sound a serious warning that what just happened should be the last time that the PDP or any of its sponsored miscreants would do to us with violence or criminal attitude,” he said. “We have always supported both the government and security agencies in maintaining peace, law,- and order in the state. Let PDP equally be doing that under a conducive political manner and environment. “We are calling on all our members to continue to remain peaceful and law-abiding. We also commend security agencies and their operatives in the state for their steadfastness and prompt action in bringing all bad elements to book.” PDP KICKS Reacting, Mukhtar Lugga, PDP acting chairman, described the APC allegations as an “action of a political party losing relevance”. He said the PDP activities in the state have been “violence-free”. “None of our members attempted to destroy even a single APC billboard, we are very surprised to hear this from them,” he said.