Ghana is set to begin requiring passengers arriving from China to provide negative COVID test results before they enter the country. According to a statement by the Ghana Airports Company Limited, from January 6, all travellers arriving Ghana from China must show evidence of being negative for COVID. Fully vaccinated travellers arriving from other countries are exempted from the rule. “All persons arriving in Ghana (citizens, residents, and visitors) who are fully vaccinated will be exempted from any form of testing done either prior to boarding from originating country or on arrival in Ghana except passengers originating their journey from China,” the statement reads. “Passengers originating their journey from China will be required to present valid negative COVID-19 PCR test result 48 hours prior to departure from originating country. In addition, such passengers will be required to undergo mandatory COVID-19 testing on arrival at the Kotoka International Airport at no cost. “All other passengers originating their journey from elsewhere other than China (i.e Ghanaian citizens, permanent residents of Ghana or non-Ghanaians), who are partially vaccinated or unvaccinated, will be required to present a valid negative COVID-19 PCR test result 48 hours prior to departure from originating country. “In addition, such passengers will be required to undergo mandatory COVID-19 testing on arrival at Kotoka International Airport at no cost. “In addition to the above, passengers may be randomly selected and offered test on arrival.” Ghana also said airlines that bring passengers from China to Kotoka airport without a valid PCR test taken 48 hours prior to departure will be charged $3,500. Other countries that have imposed mandatory COVID tests on travellers from China include the UK, Spain, France, Italy, the United States, Japan, India, South Korea, Taiwan, and Malaysia. The move follows a surge in China’s COVID cases, and the country’s decision to drop its strict zero-COVID policy. Meanwhile, the Nigerian government has said there is currently no evidence to suggest that travel restrictions need to be placed on passengers arriving from China. “We have not seen any difference between people coming from China and people coming from other countries. But if we see any red flags, we will be able to consider what to do. So far, we have not seen any red flags to necessitate us to take action against any country,” the Nigerian government said.