Femi Gbajabiamila, the speaker of the house of representatives, has warned against “vicious attacks” on political actors ahead of the elections. Gbajabiamila spoke on Tuesday at the resumption of plenary for the 2023 legislative year. Ahead of the elections, there have been attacks on some politicians across the country. During the weekend, gunmen attacked the Imo state residence of Ikenga Ugochinyere, spokesperson of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) in Imo, which resulted in the death of several persons. The campaign train of some candidates have also been reportedly attacked. Gbajabiamila said Nigerians must unite against the “dangerous trend” which could threaten the forthcoming elections. “Honourable colleagues, as we approach the general election, there has been a marked increase in incidents of insecurity and vicious attacks on political actors in parts of the country,” he said. “We must unite to ensure this dangerous trend does not lead to circumstances that threaten the forthcoming elections. “The quality of the political conversations in society, particularly in the lead-up to elections, is a determining factor in the electoral outcomes and the quality of governance that will result therefrom. “When political discourse seeks to unite the people behind an agenda of shared prosperity, social development, and respect for the humanity of persons, governance will also reflect these priorities. “As leaders in our various communities and constituencies, we must adopt a politics of accommodation and brotherhood. And we must ensure that no insecurity threatening our country’s peace can be attributed to our actions or utterances. “This is our constitutional obligation and a moral duty from which we must not deviate.” ‘BE COMMITTED TO DUTIES’ Gbajabiamila advised his colleagues to be committed to their legislative duties despite taking part in political campaigns as they owe the citizens quality representation. “Let us begin this new year with a renewed commitment to legislative action that brings us closer to achieving our highest aspirations for our nation,” he said. “Let us resume with renewed determination to achieve better oversight of government spending priorities through a collaborative effort with the executive arm of government and civil society, and we remain dedicated to the lofty yet clear ambitions we articulated in our legislative agenda when we resumed in the ninth assembly. “This year, it is imperative that we focus our efforts on completing the tasks we have already initiated and closing out the assignments on which our legacy in this ninth house will be assessed.”