Abdul-Azeez Adediran, governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos, says the rights of Igbo traders will not be trampled upon if elected. Adediran, popularly known as Jandor, spoke on Thursday when he met with Igbo traders and other groups in Surulere LGA to solicit their support. In the company of other party leaders and candidates, he assured them of his resolve to respect the rights of everyone in the state whether they are indigenes or non-indigenes. He said his commitment was to take back the state and return it to the masses. Adediran promised to treat the Igbo traders and other ethnic groups in the state fairly. He also assured the traders that their businesses and investments would be protected in the state. “Your rights are no longer going to be infringed upon,” he said. “We know that you play a huge role in the economy of our state. Nobody will harass your business premises when I emerge as the governor of Lagos state. “All the money that you bring into our economy is doing so much. I thank you for that. Anyone who appreciates the role you play in the economy will ensure that nobody harasses you in your business. “We will ensure that vehicles conveying your containers are given free passage to your business premises because the goods are for the growth of the community where you are located. “I will make sure that you are comfortable in Lagos state because you consider Lagos state as your home. Rest assured that I would consider you as one of us in Lagos.” Responding, Christopher Eluu, president of mega auto parts, allied traders association (MAPATA), appreciated Adediran for coming to solicit their support. Eluu said the traders were satisfied with his action. He assured him that the group would vote for a candidate that is concerned about their welfare and would not disturb their businesses. “We have mobilised our members and have told them to get their permanent voters cards (PVCs) and we have also taken a decision on who we are going to vote,” Eluu said.