President Muhammadu Buhari says his eight-year administration has been gratifying for Nigerians. The President said he has fulfilled his promise to serve Nigeria to the best of his ability which is evident from the huge crowd that welcomes him wherever he goes. Speaking on Monday at the All Progressives Congress (APC), campaign rally in Bauchi, Buhari thanked Rilwanu Adamu, the emir of Bauchi, for his support and loyalty to him during the course of his tenure. “I normally call on emirs and chiefs, whether on political or personal tours to states to show my gratitude,” he said. “I like to mention that between 2003 and 2011, I visited all the local governments, and in 2019 when I was seeking my re-election for a second term, I visited all the states of the federation and the people that turned out to see me were more than what anyone could buy or force. “And there, I made a promise and pledge that I will serve Nigeria and Nigerians to the best of my ability and so far, I have not disappointed anybody.” On his part, the emir expressed gratitude to the president, describing his leadership as exemplary and an inspiration to” all right-thinking people across the country”. He praised Buhari for committing to leave a legacy of free and fair elections, adding that the state was grateful for reforms made in the past few years. “We cannot thank you enough and we follow the example of our governor to express our greatest gratitude,” the emir said. “We are also pleased that you have kept your promise of reforming the electoral processes through continuous and progressive reforms and by ensuring the independence of the electoral body, of which our son, Professor Mahmood Yakubu is the current head. “Your determination in this and other areas of governance has been an inspiration to all right-thinking people across the country.” On Monday, Buhari led the campaign in Bauchi where he handed the party’s flag to Bola Tinubu, the standard bearer, and Sadique Abubakar, APC state governorship candidate, in a ceremonial endorsement. The campaign rally ended abruptly following a technical glitch.  