The Nigeria Customs Service says it will do everything necessary to promote trade and generate revenue for the country. Hameed Ali, comptroller-general, NCS, spoke on Tuesday at the decoration ceremony of the three newly appointed assistant comptroller-generals, and other officers of the service, held in Abuja. According to the 2023 appropriation bill recently signed by President Muhammadu Buhari, customs revenue stood at N639.65 billion between January and November 2022. The federal government said the customs collections for the period (comprising import duties, excise, fees, and special levies), exceeded the target by N15.42billion — representing a 102 percent performance in revenue generation. TheCable had reported that the NCS raked in N1.293 trillion between January and June 2022 as revenue for the federation, after the target was increased to N4.1 trillion at the beginning of the said year. Speaking at the decoration ceremony, Ali said Nigeria was relying on the service for revenue generation. “I don’t know how to say this, but I have to say it that the nation depends on us to generate revenue. We must do all that we need to do to get that money,” he said. “We must also work hard and ensure that we facilitate trade because that is what will bring in the revenue. Wherever you find yourself as an officer, you must conduct yourself as an officer, in or outside the uniform.” Meanwhile, Ali charged the newly promoted officers to be good ambassadors of the organisation. He said the responsibility of the NCS was to ensure that “we do not disgrace the service, and by that commitment, it means that in whatever you do, on-duty and off-duty, you must behave as a responsible officer”. “Promotion comes with a lot of responsibilities. Every step you go in your service you become more visible. The expectations from [you] are going to be more and you will be given assignments that will get you to be visible,” the comptroller-general said. “Let me congratulate all of you and say this is a step forward. Today at the Nigeria Customs Service, we have been able to streamline our processes with regards to promotion. We have a standing operational procedure. “I want to assure every customs man and woman that if you work hard and maintain good conduct, and you pass your exams, I bet you, promotions are at your beck and call. So, let me use his medium to, once again, impress on all of us to take our jobs seriously. Our attitude is gradually changing, we are taking this service seriously. We are now realising why we are in this uniform. I’ve always said that once you make up your mind to wear this uniform, please give it the respect that it deserves. “It is a great opportunity that out of the over 200 million people, 15,000 of us are today representing Nigeria in this service. It is a great thing of pride and I expect us to work with our heads high.”