Dapo Abiodun, governor of Ogun state, says the killers of Kehinde and Bukola Fatinoye will not go unpunished. The governor said he has directed Lanre Bankole, commissioner of police in the state, to ensure that the perpetrators of the crime are arrested. On January 1, Kehinde and Bukola were found dead at their residence in Ibara government reservation area (GRA) in Abeokuta, the state capital. The incident was said to have happened shortly after the couple — former employees of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), respectively — returned from a church service to usher in the new year. The building belonging to the couple was also set ablaze, while Oreoluwa, their son, and a maid were reportedly kidnapped. The remains of the couple, who were burnt beyond recognition, have since been buried. On Tuesday, Oreoluwa’s body was found floating in a river along Adigbe-Obada road in Abeokuta. ABIODUN COMMISERATES WITH FAMILIES OF DECEASED The Ogun governor sympathised with the families of the deceased over the “unfortunate and tragic” incident. “My heart goes out to the families of Kehinde and Bukola Fatinoye,” Abiodun was quoted as saying by Kunle Somorin, his chief press secretary. “The incident indeed shocked me; it was unfortunate and tragic. I can imagine the pains the families would be going through at this period when everyone is still basking in the euphoria of the New Year. “This is a grievous crime, no doubt. I have directed the commissioner of police to ensure that everything is done in order to arrest the people behind the dastard act. “I assure you that the perpetrators will not go unpunished. Such a heinous crime should not go without making the people responsible face the full wrath of the law. “Though our administration had since strengthened the security architecture in the state, we shall continue to provide logistics to the security agencies in order to make our state the safest to live, work and play.”