The Edo government says two persons kidnapped during the attack on a train station in the state have been rescued. Christopher Nehikhare, Edo state commissioner for communication and orientation, disclosed this while speaking with journalists on Friday. BACKGROUND On January 7, gunmen kidnapped several persons from a train station in Igueben LGA, Edo state. The abductees were said to have been waiting to board a train from the Igueben station to Warri in Delta state, when the incident occurred. At least 30 people were reportedly kidnapped, but Nehikhare, on Wednesday, said intelligence report showed that 20 persons were abducted. The commissioner had earlier said seven of the abducted persons had been rescued. ‘WE’LL NOT ALLOW GUNMEN HAVE CAMPS IN EDO’ Speaking on Friday, Nehikhare said two more victims were rescued on Thursday. “I’m pleased to report that two more victims have been rescued from the Igueben train station issue. They were rescued in the early hours of yesterday,” the commissioner said. “The operation is still ongoing, and we will also like to reassure the Edo people that we are going to make Edo state very uncomfortable for kidnappers or bandits or whatever nomenclature they want to go by. “We will not allow them to have a camp here in Edo. You can see the swiftness with which we have been reacting to their operation, and you can see the successes we have been recording so far.” Speaking further, the commissioner denied media reports that a police officer was killed during the rescue of Precious Aigbonoga, president of the Igueben area customary court. Aigbonoga was kidnapped on Monday while on her way to Igueben LGA, and was rescued on Thursday. Nehikhare said the police officer, who he identified as Adam Michael, died due to “natural causes” after the rescue operation. “We’ve had the rescue of the magistrate of a customary court that was kidnapped a few days ago, by our gallant police officers after a great job was done,” he said. “Unfortunately, the release led to the death of one of our very gallant officers, DSP Adam Michael, who is from Bayelsa state, married with two daughters, and was attached to the anti-kidnapping squad. He was just 34 years old. “I was disturbed when I read that DSP Adam fell by a bullet during the crossfire. But I’m here to correct that impression. That’s not true. “He was one of those that went for the operation. After a successful operation, he died through natural causes. He was not shot by a bullet. There is no bullet wound on him, and he didn’t even die at the scene of the operation.”