The Osun state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked its members to commence seven-day fasting and prayer for favourable judgment at the election petition tribunal. In August 2022, Gboyega Oyetola, former Osun governor, and the APC petitioned the tribunal to challenge the election victory of Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Among several issues, Oyetola is contending that there was overvoting in 749 polling units across 10 LGAs of the state. According to a statement on Friday by Tajudeen Lawal, the acting chair of Osun APC, the fasting and prayer begins on Friday. He also said the exercise is necessary for the party after making “everything legally possible before the tribunal for the retrieval of Oyetola’s mandate”. “I believe in the efficacy of prayers and that there are no challenges that are greater than the powers of prayers,” he said “I appeal to APC members not to treat the fasting and prayers session with levity. I am convinced that God will perform wonders through the collective prayers of party members. “It is important for APC members to remember to pray for continuous good health for Oyetola and his deputy, Mr Bennedict Alabi, as well as members of their families during the fasting and prayer session. “Pray for quick restoration of Osun’s lost and dwindling glory among the comity of states in Nigeria.” While the state APC is aiming to win at the tribunal with fasting and prayer, TheCable reported on Tuesday how Ademola Adeleke, the Osun governor, expressed optimism of victory. Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had said Adeleke would win the Osun governorship election even if results from polling units contested by Oyetola were exempted. INEC, in its final written address by Paul Ananaba, counsel to the commission, insisted that Adeleke won the governorship poll. “The petitioners complained of over-voting and infractions by picking 749 polling units to contend with from 1750 polling units, according to the first respondent witnessed (RW1),” he said. “If a deduction of 1750 units was carried out from the total 3763 units in the state, the second respondent will still emerge as the winner with over 20,000 votes”