Rotimi Akeredolu, the governor of Ondo, has imposed a curfew on the Okoja area of Ikare-Akoko town in Ondo, following an outbreak of violence in the community. TheCable reported on Wednesday that several buildings were razed in the community. A resident, whose name wasn’t given, said there were gunshots after some persons disrupted a New Year carnival organised by youths in Okoja. Speaking on the development in a statement on Thursday, Richard Olatunde, the governor’s spokesperson, said movement in the community has been restricted. “A 24-hour curfew has been imposed on Ikare-Akoko, headquarters of Akoko Northeast Local Government Area of Ondo State, with immediate effect,” the statement reads. “The decision was made at the State Security Council meeting chaired by the Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, CON. “This follows the escalated violent clash in the town since Tuesday which has continued unabated, despite the meeting held by Government and the Olukare of Ikare, Oba Akadiri Momoh, and Owa Ale of Iyometa, Oba Adeleke Adegbite, to rein in their subjects. “Security agencies have been directed to ensure strict compliance with the order just as investigations are already on to unravel the real cause(s) of the violent clash. “For emphasis, Ikare Akoko has been closed down for any unathourised human movement and activity until further notice. According to Olufunmilayo Odunlami-Omisanya, the Ondo police spokesperson, the meeting was to find lasting solutions to incessant clashes between communities in the town. He said the two traditional rulers, Akadiri Momoh, the Olukare of Ikare-Akoko, and Adeleke Adedoyin-Adegbite, the Owa-Ale of Ikare-Akoko, promised to maintain peace and order in the community. “Men of the tactical team of the police have been deployed as reinforcement into the community as Ikare- Akoko is currently calm,” Oyediran said. “Also, let me use this medium to appeal to the people of the state not to take laws into their hands or to resort to self-help. “Channel your grievances to the appropriate quarters; report criminal cases to law enforcement agencies or seek redress in the court of law.”