Nine persons have reportedly died following a cholera outbreak in Akpoha, Afikpo north LGA of Ebonyi state. At least 30 people were also said to have been hospitalised in various hospitals in the state. The state government was said to have immediately sent a rapid response team to the community over the weekend to help bring the situation under control. Paying a visit to the hospitalised patients in Amata Akpoha Hospital in the community on Tuesday, David Umahi, governor of the state, said he would provide 10 boreholes for the LGA as a way of tackling water scarcity in the area. While thanking the health workers for their efforts, Umahi said he would also construct modern toilets in the area within the next two weeks. “The commissioner for water resources, the commissioner for health, and all the leaders here will tell us where to sink 10 boreholes and construct toilets here, to start latest by 6th of January,” NAN quoted him as saying. “I commend the stakeholders of the area for their prompt response. I urge them to continue to uphold peace in their domains. “There is nothing as good as peace, the same way we should not allow division to come between us. When leaders struggle for supremacy, it is a terrible thing because there is a place for everybody.” The governor also donated 100 bags of rice, wrappers, two cows, and money to the patients and health workers in the hospital. Daniel Umezuruike, the commissioner for health, said over 100 patients have been successfully managed at the health facility. Meanwhile, according to the latest situation report by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), from January 1 to November 27, 2022, a total of 23,550 suspected cases of cholera — including 583 deaths — were reported from 32 states and the FCT. “Of the suspected cases since the beginning of the year, age group 5 -14 years is the most affected age group for male and female,” the report reads. “Of all suspected cases, 49% are males and 51% are females. “Six states – Borno (12459 cases), Yobe (1888 cases), Katsina (1632 cases), Gombe (1407 cases), Taraba (1142 cases) and Kano (1131 cases) – account for 84% of all cumulative cases “Fifteen LGAs across five states Borno (7), Yobe (4), Taraba (2), Gombe (1) and Zamfara (1), reported more than 200 cases each this year Cholera Situation.”