Shamsudeen Dambazau, a member of the house of representatives, says Bola Tinubu, standard bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is healthy and fit to be president. Danbazau, a member of the APC representing Takai/Sumaila federal constituency of Kano, said this on Thursday in Abuja. The legislator, who is the son of Abdulrahman Dambazau, a former minister of interior, said Tinubu recently danced to ‘Buga’, showing that he is fit. ‘Buga‘ is a collaborative hit song by Kizz Daniel and Tekno. Since its release, the song has enjoyed massive reception among music lovers and prominent figures. Dambazau said Tinubu is healthy, unlike his running mate who admitted that he has an ailment. “Tinubu is healthy. There is nothing wrong with him,” he said. “If you remember last night, Kashim Shettima even mentioned that he is diabetic and has hypertension. “But Bola Ahmed Tinubu has no ailment. He is very fit. Did you not see him dancing Buga? He is well. There is nothing wrong with him.” He said Tinubu would tackle the nation’s challenges and ensure Nigeria works better. “All the issues Nigerians are concerned about are being addressed, have been addressed, and would be addressed by the incoming government of Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Kashim Shettima,” he said. “We would vote in a strong government that would bring strong policies, stronger institutions, and economic stability for Nigerians to prosper and enjoy the fruits of our land. “As Nigerians, we need to come together as a country. We need to have unison. We need to remove tribal sentiments and religious bigotry and understand the country is not for just us alone. “We need to put the needs of the country forward. That is why I am here today to tell you without mincing words that Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the man that has the gravitas, he is the man that has the experience to take care of all these issues that are disturbing Nigerians, be them trivial, be them controversial, be them sensitive, to be able to put people together, to be able to douse all tensions in different sectors, in different regions of Nigeria.”