The Zamfara police command says its operatives have killed two suspected arms suppliers to bandits along Gummi- Anka road in the state. Mohammed Shehu, the Zamfara police spokesperson, announced the development in a statement on Sunday. Shehu said the arms suppliers were killed in a gun duel with the police that lasted for hours. He said the arms suppliers were conveying the weapons from Taraba state when they were intercepted by the police after receiving intelligence information on their movement. The police spokesperson added that a Toyota Corolla vehicle containing three live shells for rockets RGP, three explosive shells, 151 rounds of live ammunition for an AK 47 rifle, 200 rounds of live ammunition for an anti-aircraft rifle (AA) and some charms were recovered from the arms suppliers. “On 7th January 2023, Police Tactical Operatives have successfully neutralised two (2) Gun Runners along GUMMI – ANKA Road following an extensive gun duel that lasted for hours between the Police and the gun runners, while conveying sophisticated arms and ammunition to terrorists camp in Zamfara all the way from Taraba state,” the statement reads. “The feat was recorded following Intelligence Information received about the movement of the suspects inside a Toyota Corolla Vehicle containing the above-mentioned exhibits from Taraba State en- route terrorists camp in Zamfara State. “Two (2) of the suspects were fatally injured while others escaped to the bush with possible gunshot wounds. Injured suspects were taken to Yariman Bakura Specialist Hospital Gusau and later confirmed dead by the doctor while on admission. “Spot search by the operatives led to the recovery of the above-mentioned exhibits. Additional Joint/Vigilant operatives were deployed to the location for rigorous confidence-building patrol aimed at apprehending the fleeing suspects “The Commissioner of Police CP Kolo Yusuf psc, assures Police continuous commitment to rid the state of terrorist and other criminal activities for safety, security and peace of Zamfara state.”