The Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) in Abia state has threatened to shut down the state’s health sector due to the alleged non-payment of salaries by the government. Isaiah Abali, chairman of the NMA, Abia chapter, said this on Thursday during a protest organised by the association at the Government House in Umuahia, the state capital. According to NAN, more than 50 doctors were seen carrying placards with different inscriptions such as ‘Abia govt pay our salaries’, ‘Abia doctors are starving’, ‘Doctors lives matter’, among others. Abali said doctors at the Abia State University Teaching Hospital (ABSUTH) and Hospital Management Board (HMB) were owed 25 and 13 months salaries, respectively. He said the protest was, therefore, organised by the members to express their grievances over the irregular payment of salaries. “We are resolute. Even if it means closing the hospitals until the present government leaves office, we are ready,” he said. “It has been a game of giving excuses like ‘we can generate money to pay ourselves’, and  ‘government does not have money’. “Workers deserve to be paid their wages and the payment of the wages should not be politicised. “If the government is saying ‘no-work-no-pay’, what about the work done without pay? Are you going to pay interest on it? “I challenge the government to pay doctors and see if any further agitation will hold.” Abali added that the association was prepared to take steps to ensure that the issue of non-payment of doctors’ salaries is addressed. Daniel Ekeleme, the association’s secretary, said the current situation had caused hardship and depression for doctors. “In a country that is experiencing serious brain drain of healthcare workers, the government should not be seen owing doctors,” he said. “We took the sacrifice to stay back and it is appalling that this is happening to us in our homeland. “We have begged and appealed to the state government to expedite action in addressing the issue. “We call upon people of good will all over this country and beyond to prevail upon Abia government to pay us our salaries.” Eze Chikamnayo, Abia commissioner for information and strategy, said the government, on different occasions, authorised release of funds to restore regular salary payment. “Just a few days ago, government yet again provided N420 million, representing three months of the salary arrears for doctors in ABSUTH,” he said.