The African Action Alliance (AAC) and a faction of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) have formed an alliance ahead of the next month’s elections. The parties held an event in Kano on Monday and signed a memorandum of understanding for their alliance. Omoyele Sowore was announced as their adopted presidential candidate. Speaking at the event, Sowore said if he is elected president, he would end poverty in Nigeria. He described the alliance between the AAC and the factional PRP as the “most powerful kinetic combination” in the history of the country. “Today we are very happy to be in Kano. Kano is the home of the truth for Nigeria. Kano is one of the liberal cities for development and democracy and we are happy that we are not among the politicians you know and call ‘munafikin banza’,” Sowore said. “The PRP from time immemorial has been a party of truth. The AAC is also a party of the truth, but we are younger than the PRP. “The Alliance that is happening today has been prophesied by Alhaji Balarabe Musa in 2018 in Kaduna where we met him. We went to his bedroom and he said: come and join PRP and today it has come to pass. “Our conviction is that we will defeat the elements in this country that have brought poverty to the North, East, and South and those that have brought insecurity and all problems that the APC, PDP, and their affiliates have brought to Nigeria, “We are very proud that within the shortest period, the country witnessed an alliance it had never witnessed before. They keep decamping, and they pay for decamping every day but ours is an alliance and it is so strong. “As we are sitting here and standing here, the whole of the political establishment in Nigeria is afraid. In fact, they put people outside here to tell people there is no meeting here today. But at this hall, look at me, don’t I look and talk like Mallam Aminu Kano? “I will assure you when we take over power in 2023, the poverty that has become our story will end. The insecurity that has become our nature will come to an end. “We will build a fast railway from Lagos to Kano. We will ensure that young people go to university which will not be shut down due to nonpayment of lecturers. We will make sure education is free. “Our combination is the most powerful kinetic combination in the history of Nigeria and we will make sure we deliver Nigeria from the hands of the buccaneers that have ruined it; those corrupt people that have made Nigeria a laughing stock and poverty headquarters of the world, we will pull them out of business.”