The Adamawa police command says it deployed additional assets to ensure a hitch-free visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to the state. Suleiman Nguroje, Adamawa police spokesperson, disclosed this in a statement issued on Saturday. According to NAN, Buhari will be in the state on Monday to flag off the governorship campaign rally of  Aishatu Binani. Nguroje said all officers have been ordered to display a high level of professionalism and respect for human rights. He added that the additional operational assets include; surveillance patrol men, tactical/operational teams, police mobile force (PMF) and counter-terrorism unit (CTU), among others. “The teams are expected to carry out covert surveillance as well as confidence-building patrols in the state in conjunction with sister security agencies,” the statement reads. “The Commissioner of Police (CP) is assuring synergy and good working relationships amongst all security agencies which will be put into place. “The NPF is committed to working with other patriotic stakeholders towards ensuring public order in the State before, during and after the visit of Mr President. “The CP being the head of internal security in the state is already on ground to coordinate the security deployment and ensure all things being equal, the visit of Mr President is hitch-free.” Nguroje further said the CP has equally directed that vehicular movement be restricted especially those coming from Sangere-Numan road to Yola town to follow the federal government girls college ( FGGC) junction through Jambutu motor park leading to Doubeli junction. He also urged those coming from Yola town to the Airport, to take the 80 housing units through the Commissioner’s quarters down to Mubi roundabout. “The command, while regretting the inconveniences it might have caused, appeals to the general public to conduct themselves and cooperate with security agents in the course of discharging their constitutional mandate,” he said. Meanwhile, On Friday, the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council said the president would attend 10 rallies of Bola Tinubu, standard bearer of the ruling party. One of the states to be attended is Adamawa among other states across the country.