Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has described himself as a detribalised individual. Tinubu spoke on Sunday at an event organised by the Arewa community at the Mobolaji Johnson stadium in Lagos state. The former governor of Lagos said he would honour all the promises he made regardless of ethnicity and religious differences so that we will live in peace. “My respect for this country will continue to increase, and I will honour all my pledges that we all will live in harmony. We belong in each other’s hearts,” Tunde Rahman, media aide to Tinubu, quoted him as saying. “From the moment I enlisted in politics, I have always been nationalistic and detribalised in my approach. I do not operate on the basis of ethnicity, region or religion. I have friends and associates in all corners of this country. “As governor of Lagos state, I constituted a cabinet, composed of competent people from all parts of Nigeria. “We had the Yoruba, as we had the Igbo and Arewa. What was important to me was not your ethnicity or creed, it was your competence and the value you would bring to governance and people. “To replicate this feat for the country is why I have offered myself for the presidency.” Tinubu said if elected president, his priority would be the safety and prosperity of the country. “I shall tackle this nation’s problems with a commitment to solving them,” he said. “I will give priority to confronting security, making the economy one of widely shared prosperity and paying special attention to agriculture like the present government of President Muhammadu Buhari. “On security, my policy is not an artificial one created to sound good for this campaign. Our security policy is based on dedicated study and long conversations with experts in this field. “I used the same approach to tackle the bad security situation that faced me when I became governor of Lagos. I created programmes and institutions to solve the real and dangerous challenges Lagos faced.”