President Muhammadu Buhari has called on voters in Adamawa to make history by electing the first female governor in the country. In a statement by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, Buhari spoke on Monday at the inauguration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential and gubernatorial campaigns in Adamawa state. Aishatu Binani is the governorship candidate of the APC in Adamawa. Buhari said Binani’s track record of dedication to duty and service will improve the livelihood of citizens. He told voters that Binani has consistently worked for the welfare of the state over the years, and entrusting her with the office of the governor would further strengthen her to reposition Adamawa for greatness. “Let me remind you of the good fortune that is awaiting your state in 2023 after returning the APC to power at the federal level and electing the party’s candidate as your incoming governor,” Buhari said. “You have been given the opportunity to set a record in the history of Nigeria and the annals of democracy and politics in our country by electing the first-ever female chief executive of a state in Nigeria. “You cannot afford that such a significant opportunity would slip through your fingers. “I am, therefore, calling on all the men, women and youth of Adamawa, the northeast and indeed the entire country, to support the candidature of Senator Aisha Binani and ensure her victory in March 2023.” Buhari urged the electorate to vote for all candidates of the party, and advised the youths to remain loyal to the APC. “It is the APC from top to bottom,” he said. “I wish specially to thank you for reposing your trust in me and giving me your support during the last two presidential elections. “I want you to continue with this spirit and remain loyal to our party, the APC. I want you to support our candidates at all levels in the state and federal elections. “You can trust Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Jagaban of Borgu, our party’s flag-bearer and presidential candidate, together with his running mate, Kashim Shettima. “I want you to vote for them massively, retain the party in power at the centre, and also return Adamawa to the rank of the progressives.” The president urged youths in the state and country to pursue values that would bring honour to their families and the country, advising that Nigeria’s image can only be improved by citizens. “Let me now speak to the youths of our country, and Adamawa particularly. I want you to know that you mean so much to us. Please remain loyal and patriotic citizens, learn from your elders, and behave responsibly at all times,” he said. “There can be no other place better than this country that promises so much to us and beckons us to greater prosperity. “I want you to remain true to our ideals of decency, respect and accountability. You should bear your responsibilities seriously and acquit yourself well in all that you are called on to do. “You should all come out and vote in the forthcoming elections, exercise your franchise responsibly, and do not allow yourselves to be misled by vain sentiments and idle promises.” ‘APC HAS A VISION OF MAKING ADAMAWA PROSPEROUS‘ The president also said the APC has a vision of making Adamawa more peaceful, progressive, and prosperous. “Your contributions in Adamawa to our national development can be attested to by your output in agriculture, fishery, livestock, industry, manufacturing, commerce and mining, among others,” Buhari said. “Adamawa people are progressive in nature, and it is time to prove it once again. “Our vision for Adamawa as a peaceful, progressive and prosperous state is strong and enduring. With your perseverance and determination, the APC will make Adamawa a model state in all areas of endeavour.”