Femi Gbajabiamila, the speaker of the house of representatives, has described the judgment of the Osun governorship election petition tribunal sacking Ademola Adeleke as a “fair deal” for the people. Gboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had petitioned the tribunal to challenge the election victory of Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Among several issues, Oyetola told the tribunal that there was overvoting in 749 polling units across 10 LGAs of the state. Oyetola also challenged Adeleke’s eligibility to contest the election. Delivering judgment on Friday, two out of a three-member panel of the tribunal held that the petitioner was able to prove that there was over-voting in some of the polling units. Tetsea Kume, who read the majority decision, held that INEC did not comply substantially with the constitution and the provisions of the electoral act. Reacting to the tribunal judgment in a statement issued on Friday by Lanre Lasisi, his special adviser on media, Gbajabiamila said the “people’s mandate (is) finally restored”. “The Speaker of the House of Representatives Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila has congratulated the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Osun State governorship election held last year, Oyetola Adegboyega, on his victory at the election tribunal,” the statement reads. “Gbajabiamila said the tribunal verdict was a welcome development and a fair deal for the people of Osun State who stood behind Oyetola to return for the second time. “With the judgment, the Speaker noted that APC remains the party to beat at all times, especially during the forthcoming general elections. “Saying that the people of Osun State have been vindicated by the verdict, Gbajabiamila called on all APC members in Osun and across the country to remain law-abiding and brace up for the general elections. “Speaker Gbajabiamila was glad that the Osun governorship election tribunal was convinced that indeed there were anomalies during the election, which is why it restored the people’s mandate. “He urged Oyetola to be magnanimous in victory at the end of the whole process.”