The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) says sustainable cooling has been put on the global agenda of the 28th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28). According to Sustainable Energy for All, almost 2.5 billion people do not have access to climate-friendly cooling solutions, while over one billion people are at high risk from extreme heat due to a lack of cooling access – the vast majority living in Africa and Asia. Conventional cooling, such as air conditioning, is responsible for over seven percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, UNEP said. If not managed properly, energy needs for space cooling will triple by 2050, together with associated emissions, further damaging the environment. In a statement on Monday, Inger Andersen, UNEP executive director, said the expansion of sustainable cooling systems would protect vulnerable communities from extreme heat. “Expanding cooling will protect the most vulnerable communities from extreme heat, keep food fresh and vaccines safe, employees productive and digital economies viable,” Andersen said. “As cooling expands, we need to prevent cooling-related greenhouse gas emissions from adding fuel to the climate fire. I am therefore pleased that cooling has been put on the global agenda of the next UN climate change conference.” The agenda is targeted to spur action on sustainable cooling in five areas: nature-based solutions, super-efficient appliances, food and vaccine cold chains, district cooling, and national cooling action plans. The UNEP-led Cool Coalition, alongside the United Arab Emirates’ incoming presidency of COP28, said the development of a global cooling pledge and a “Cool COP menu of actions” would feature prominently at COP28. Sultan Al Jaber, COP28 president-designate, said his leadership is committed to tackling climate change through innovative solutions and would support the sustainable cooling systems agenda where necessary. “The global rise in temperatures is a direct threat to the health and prosperity of billions of people. But addressing this challenge should not result in further damage. We must move away from cooling systems that are inefficient and polluting and provide equitable access to climate-friendly cooling solutions,” he said. “COP28 UAE is committed to innovative technologies and partnerships that deliver results. We will work with the Cool Coalition and UNEP to elevate this issue and look forward to showcasing solutions at COP28 this year.” COP28 is expected to take place from November 30 to December 12 at Expo City, Dubai.