Family and friends of Toyin Falola, a renowned professor of history, celebrated his 70th birthday on Sunday. The virtual surprise birthday celebration had in attendance former presidents, Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan; Kayode Fayemi, former governor of Ekiti, Ayo Banjo, former vice-chancellor of the University of Ibadan, and other dignitaries. According to Tunji Olaopa, chairperson of the organising committee, the celebration was necessary to eulogise Falola who did not want a gathering. In his speech, Obasanjo commended the professor’s courage in contributing to national discourse and thanked him for not remaining silent in the face of the country’s challenges The former president welcomed the celebrant to the septuagenarian circle and prayed that they would both be alive to celebrate him at 80. “Our existential challenges as humans and more critically as Nigerians are many, and even more so for someone like you who shoulders many responsibilities as a scholar, custodian of culture, elder in your own right, statesman, and a public global intellectual,” Obasanjo said. “I must say that I deeply appreciate your unrelenting interventions in Nigeria’s unravelling as a nation. Nigeria needs her intellectuals, professionals, and patriots, those who can quarrel with her to instigate the progress that seems to have eluded us for so long, and you have successfully situated yourself in that best tradition. “I will be with you again, by the grace of God, when you are 80.” FAYEMI: I’M AN INDIRECT STUDENT OF FALOLA On his part, Fayemi thanked the professor for imparting knowledge in many people in the country including his wife, adding that he had distinguished himself as a beacon of knowledge. “I consider myself an indirect student of Prof. Falola. He taught my wife, who is also part of this webinar. But I first learned from his feet when he wrote that heartbreaking book with Julius Ihonvbere, ‘The Rise and Fall of the Second Republic.’ From then on, I became very fascinated by and interested in his work,” Fayemi said. “When I went to the University of Ife now Obafemi Awolowo University for my master’s degree, he was there as lecturer. He is warm and willing to share his knowledge. He is never judgmental. He is a Yoruba exemplar. We owe a duty to him in celebrating him as a father and a mentor. His commitment to pan-Africanism is unequal.” Also speaking, Awolowo Dosunmo, former ambassador to The Netherlands, described the celebrant as indefatigable, saying “he remains one of the individuals to fix Nigeria”. In appreciation, Falola said he was grateful for the outpour of love, adding that he was unable to avoid the celebration due to the calibre of those expected to attend. “I am very grateful to everyone for their kind words. I am grateful to President Obasanjo. He is still strong and has the optimism that he would still be with us,” he said. “We can be disappointed with leadership but not with our communities. Your vision must be big. Make your projects bigger. Don’t be minimalist in trying to skew your future. It is very difficult to grow beyond your vision.”