Gaming is like walking into a store with all your favorite things. Will you spend all your money to satisfy your wants, or will you buy the most important things and leave the store? There will always be something you want or desire, however, you need to be intentional about how you spend your money. This applies to all things, including sports betting. To avoid falling prey to the ills of sports betting, punters must learn to practice Responsible gaming. Responsible gaming means exercising control over your time and money while enjoying sports betting. It usually involves taking breaks, betting with money you can afford to lose, and setting limits for yourself. Gaming can be a form of entertainment if players use certain strategies to keep from losing control. Leading sports betting company BetKing, launched the “Kings Know When to Stop” campaign in recognition of the fact that responsible gaming initiatives are mainly about prevention. BetKing’s three-part video series encourages users to maintain responsible gaming habits. Set Boundaries The first rule is discipline, which is the hardest of the lot. It is essential to set and enforce rules for yourself, allowing you to learn self-control. This is important because when you’ve reached your betting limit, you can stop and move on with ease to any other tasks that you might have. While it is natural for one to break rules every now and then, try your best to stay disciplined as often as possible and remind yourself of why you have those rules in the first place. Keep Track of Your Time It cannot be denied that sports betting is engaging. As such, it is very hard to realize how much time one spends playing. Sometimes you find yourself thinking, “okay, five minutes tops,” but when you look up, three hours have gone by. You must be conscious of how much time goes by when you play. Make sure to balance the time you spend on gaming with the rest of your activities. Limit Your Betting Budget Setting a budget means only placing bets with what you can afford to lose and walking away while you are ahead. Once again, self-control and discipline are important when setting limits on your gaming budget. Finally, avoid gaming if you are not in a good mood, as your emotional state affects the way you bet. Likewise, limit alcohol intake while betting, as it can affect your attitude and judgment. With responsible gaming, no one loses!