The Mukhtaar Tijani Foundation held its third annual ‘Back 2 School Drive’ in Lagos Island to support pupils with their educational needs as they resume for a new term. The programme was held on Saturday with about 600 students in attendance. Letters were sent to various schools requesting they nominate top students that will participate in our quiz competition on Math, English and Current Affairs. Outstanding students from the competition received cash prizes, laptops and bags. The ‘Back 2 School Drive’, an initiative by Mukhtaar Tijani, general manager of the Lagos State Electricity Board (LSEB), started in 2021 as a response to assist students going back to school after the COVID-19 pandemic that affected the majority of families across the country. Tijani addressing the students According to Tijani, the initiative was conceived when he met many parents who expressed concerns about the closure of schools during the pandemic and getting access to learning materials for their children when school resumed. “For you the students here, I want to leave you with a few words of encouragement. As you are still adjusting to being back at school, I want to talk with you about your education and what’s expected of all of you in this new school year,” Tijani said. “Make sure you show up to school, pay attention to your teachers, listen to your parents, grandparents and other adults; and put in the hard work it takes to succeed. “No matter what class you’re in, every single one of you has something you’re good at. Every single one of you has something to offer and you have a responsibility to yourself to discover what that is. That’s the opportunity an education can provide.”  Speaking at the event, Lanre Shasore, senior special assistant to Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on planning and coordination, commended Tijani for the initiative, saying it will close the gap of out-of-school children in the State. Zainab Aderounmu, a first-class graduate of the Lagos State University and youth ambassador, motivated the students to study hard and strive for excellence. Also present at the event were Muibi Folawiyo, chairman Lagos Island East LCDA; Bashir Are, general manager, Lagos Lottery Board; Abdulmumin Edidi, Representative, Lagos Central senatorial district Nigerian youth parliament and chairman, house committee on drug and substance abuse control; and Qudus Abari: education secretary, Lagos Island Local Government.