Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, has asked residents in Oyo to support the re-election bid of Seyi Makinde, governor of the state. Wike spoke on Thursday at the PDP campaign flag-off in Ibadan, the capital of Oyo. Three governors — Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Samuel Ortom of Benue, and Okezie Ipeazu of Abia — and Ayo Fayose, former Ekiti governor, were also present at the rally. Wike told the crowd at Mapo Hall, where the rally took place, that they should vote for the PDP candidates at all levels, adding that Makinde will tell them who to support for the presidency. “Seyi Makinde, our youth leader in G5, a young man who is dependable, a young man who you can trust, a young man you can go home and sleep with your two eyes closed; Seyi Makinde has done well since you gave him the mandate in 2019,” he said. “You all know that Seyi Makinde has done well since he came in 2019 and therefore, the only way we can appreciate more and benefit more is for him to go back and complete the good work he has started.” “The other one, Seyi will come (tell) to you.” Also speaking, Ortom said the G5 governors are united and will tell the people who to support for the presidency. “We want to assure you that the Integrity Group and the G5 governors are committed members of the PDP in our various states,” he said. “We have a challenge with the national leaders of our party because they have failed to deploy the internal resolution mechanism to solve the problems after the convention. “We are committed to PDP in our various states and at the appropriate time, we are going to let you know where and what to do. “We are united; we are together. Don’t listen to gossip on social media — we are committed to PDP and all our candidates in our states.” Known as G5, the governors have been absent from the campaign rallies of Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate, and are demanding the resignation of Iyorchia Ayu, national chairman of the party. The demand for Ayu’s resignation is on the grounds that the party’s presidential candidate and national chairman cannot be from the same region.