The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos says its supporters have been attacked in the state. Supporters of Adediran, better known as Jandor, were reportedly attacked by thugs in Badagry, Ikorodu, Agege, and Kosofe area of Lagos. A recent attack reportedly occurred in Surulere on Friday. In a statement on Saturday, Hakeem Amode, Lagos PDP publicity secretary, said the attacks were “clear evidence of APC high-handedness and imperialism rule”. “The hoodlums went to the Baale of Ojuoluwa in Empire area of the LGA to threaten him not to receive the entourage who was billed to pay him a courtesy visit,” Amode said. “The gates leading to the entire Empire area was locked and vehicular movement around the area disrupted. “In the same vein, the canopy and chairs arranged at Iponri Housing Estate was violently destroyed by APC killer-thugs who were armed with dangerous weapons, including guns, and many of our members who were making the arrangements were wounded in the ensuing fracas. “The same set of the APC-sponsored thugs mobilised themselves to Soloki Street, Aguda, where Dr. Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adediran went to observe Jumat prayers, wielding dangerous weapons, destroying vehicles in the entourage and violently smashing one of the campaign vehicles. “They also vandalised the campaign vehicles of our House of Representtives Candidates, Hon. Soyinka, who is a sitting member of the House of Representatives.” The Lagos PDP spokesperson also said hoodlums vandalised the PDP secretariat at Shittu street in Aguda, adding that several members of the party sustained injuries. He said a similar incident also occurred on Teniola street. “We are once again using this opportunity to appeal to the President and Commander-in- Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammad Buhari, to use his good offices to stem the undemocratic practice of APC in Lagos State, against opposition parties,” he added. “This is to ensure that the desire of the president to leave a legacy of credible elections is not truncated on the altar of selfishness and entitlement by the ruling party in the state. “We are also using this opportunity to call on the Inspector General of Police to rise to the occasion and provide adequate security for all and sundry to enable them to exercise their franchise in the coming elections.” APC DENIES ALLEGATIONS Reacting to the PDP’s accusation, Seye Oladejo, Lagos APC publicity secretary, said contrary to the allegations, it was Adediran’s thugs that unleashed violence on residents of the area “The incident left in its wake several injured victims and three people reportedly died,” he said. “We condemn in strong terms the unwarranted and unprovoked resort to violence on the citizens of the state in the name of electioneering campaign. “In broad daylight, Jandor’s thugs fired guns at their hapless victims who ran for dear lives.” He asked law enforcement agencies to investigate the incident, bring the culprits to book, and beef up security across the state.