Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), says Plateau state can become a haven for tourism if he is elected. Speaking on Friday at the LP presidential campaign rally in Jos, the Plateau captal, Obi said he and Datti Baba-Ahmed, his running mate, will protect the interest of every Nigerian. He also assured students that the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) would no longer go on strike if he becomes president. “A new Nigeria we want to build has no party. We want to save every Nigerian. Nigerians of today are hungry; Nigerians today are poor. It has become the capital of poverty in the world — capital of youth unemployment, capital of insecurity, capital of out-of-school children, capital of where people don’t have what to eat. That is what Datti and I want to change,” Obi said. “We want to build a new Nigeria. A new Nigeria is possible; with you, we are going to build a new Nigeria. “This year’s election will not be about tribe; no tribe buys bread cheaper. It will not be about religion; no religion buys bread cheaper. And it is nobody’s turn; it is your turn to take back your country. “What we want to do is that Datti and I, we are here making a pledge; we are here with our wives; we are here to make a pledge to you that we vow to secure and unite Nigeria. “We don’t want a Nigeria where there is division again. We want a Nigeria to serve Nigerians; not ‘I’m from the south-east or south-west or this’. I’m not contesting this election because I’m from the south-east. I’m contesting as a Nigerian; I’m qualified. “Datti and I have vowed to protect the interest of every Nigerian, no matter who you are, no matter where you come from. That is why we are saying Nigeria will be great. “We are going to move it from consumption to production so you can have jobs; so you will be employed; you will be proud. Our students will go back to school knowing no ASUU strike again. Four years will be four years; five years will be five years. We will make schools work. We are people of character. “Plateau state could be haven for tourism. Plateau state is where we can cultivate flour; where we can cultivate potato. “We want to bring Jos back to what it used to be. It used to be settlement for everybody; Plateau state became a roof for everybody. We want to bring it back. Go out and support Labour Party.”