Ademola Adeleke, governor of Osun, says he is working on reforming several sectors in the state to block revenue leakages and prevent the diversion of state assets. Adeleke, in his new year address to the state, assured residents of good governance and promised to remain responsive and accountable. He said in spite of the tension and anxiety in 2022, the state had emerged stronger with the support and goodwill of everyone. “I put on record my deep appreciation to you, our people, for your strong support for my political party and me during those struggling days,” he said. “I promise to remain responsive and accountable to you all as we move to reposition our state for greater heights. “I am reforming several sectors to block revenue leakages and stop diversion of state assets. The repositioning of the civil service for professionalism is also ongoing. “Also, urgent state matters are being attended to with a view to restore normalcy and bring our people together for good governance.” The governor further said his administration has created a strong working relationship among the three arms of government. “We have forged a common understanding to put the interests of the state at the forefront of everything we do through combined effort, mutual support, and impactful governance,” he said. “We plan to address the infrastructure deficit with a cost-effective, home-based, and less labour-intensive programmes. “Also, we are opening up the state for partnership in education, health, trade, investment, and tech innovations, in order to create an enabling environment for multiple cooperation to put our state on the global map of development.” On assumption of office, Adeleke ordered the removal of Segun Oladitan, chairperson of the Osun State Independent National Electoral Commission, and members of the commission over alleged financial impropriety and abuse of office. He also reversed the appointment of three traditional rulers in the state, and suspended all mining activities by firms operating with the state’s mining licences. Hours ago, he suspended Niyi Oginni, executive secretary, Osun Health Insurance Agency (OHIS), and Adebukola Olujide, head of the primary healthcare development board in the state, over alleged mismanagement of public resources.