Tunde Opeseitan, a Lagos-based journalist, has published a book detailing accomplishments of Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, wife of the Lagos governor. The book, titled ‘Portraits of the Quintessential First Lady’, is a collection of birthday tributes written in her honour. Opeseitan said the book also contains the accounts of the first lady’s interventions in crucial areas that complement the work of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos. “As a thoroughbred medical practitioner, the first lady brings on board an extensively-deep background as a professional of no mean repute, who rose through the ranks to the pinnacle of her career in the public sector as chief medical director of government health facilities, the last being General Hospital, Somolu,” he said. “Indeed, the first lady has proven beyond any iota of doubt, her steadfastness and unwavering commitment to the success of her husband, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, in office. “Thus, she has initiated and improved on inherited programmes to complement the activities of Mr. Governor in office in line with the ‘Greater Lagos’ journey as exemplified in the policy thrust of the state government, otherwise known as the THEMES developmental agenda. “The interventions of the first lady have, therefore, been documented in the book for posterity and memorabilia that will be useful both now and in the future, and more importantly, shape conversations about the role of first ladies in our democratic experience.” In the foreword, Kafayat Oyetola, wife of the former governor of Osun state, commended the efforts of Sanwo-Olu’s wife in sustaining the fight against gender-based violence in the state. Oyetola, who is also the president of Ileri-Oluwa Development Initiative, said Sanwo-Olu’s wife has also worked towards advocating equal participation of women in politics and governance. “I worked closely with her (Lagos first lady) at the level of the Southern Governors’ Wives Forum (SGWF) which I led as president and also participated actively in all the National Women’s Conference (NWC) of the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO) convened by Dr. Sanwo-Olu,” she said. “As a matter of fact, I have been attending the COWLSO NWC since 2004 and I am proud of what COWLSO is doing to impact lives positively. “Dr. Sanwo-Olu has taken service delivery to a remarkable and commendable height, particularly in the areas of the fight against SGBV, the war against drug abuse, educational interventions, financial empowerment, free health missions, senior citizens’ welfare, protection of the interests of the physically-challenged and general advocacy on the rights of women and girls, and also men and boys. “I can attest to the avowed commitment of Dr. Sanwo-Olu in standing for equitable participation of women in politics and governance not just in terms of semantics but also going the extra mile to put real actions in place and leading initiatives to ensure that women occupy the pride of place in the scheme of affairs of Lagos State and nationally. “Dr. Sanwo-Olu and I are on the same page regarding the need to sustain and scale up advocacy for the rights of women, the girl-child, the boy-child, and also empowerment initiatives to support indigents and lift them out of poverty.” She also commended the author for publishing the interventions of Sanwo-Olu’s wife and recommended the book to members of the public. See photos below.      