The federal government says it has approved the implementation of salary increases for the staff members of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Mu’azu Sambo, minister of transportation, said this on Saturday at an event organised by the management of the NPA in Lagos, in honour of workers who have served the agency for 20 years. Last year, Chris Ngige, minister of labour and employment, said the federal government was planning to raise salaries of workers. The labour minister later said the federal government was only reviewing “peculiar allowances” and not workers’ salaries. But at Saturday’s event, Sambo, said he agreed to a request by Mohammad Bello-Koko, managing director, NPA, to “fast-track the processes and procedures for the implementation of salary increase” of staff members. He commended the NPA for its commitment to workers’ welfare, and lauded the effort of Bello-Koko, adding that an “unprecedented performance in revenue generation and remittance” has been shown. “In my maiden visit to the NPA upon resumption of duty, as minister of transportation, I was commending the NPA MD, for his unprecedented performance in revenue generation and remittance. He has solicited my backing and support to fast-track the processes and procedures for the implementation of salary increase which I immediately acceded to and today I am delighted that it has been achieved,” the minister said. “I, therefore, wish to congratulate not just the employees who are recognised today, but the entire workers for their teamwork and contribution to the successes recorded in the NPA. “Let me also pledge to you that the ministry, under my watch, will continue to provide unflinching support of all initiatives of authorities, and management, geared towards the promotion of staff welfare.” On his part, Bello-Koko thanked the federal government for its support towards ensuring the increment of staff salaries. “We would like to use this opportunity to appreciate everyone here for their support towards the delivery of a salary increase for our dedicated staff,” he said. The NPA boss also said equipping the human capital resource to be the best has been one of the overriding objectives of the management. He added that the agency would make good moves “in this noble cause”. “Our drive towards ensuring 100 percent occupational health and safety for our staff has resulted in the International Organisation for Standardisation’s (ISO) certification of Calabar and Onne ports, and we are not relenting on it,” Bello-Koko said.