Dapo Olorunyomi, publisher of Premium Times, says the democracy of a country can be sampled by checking how journalism is practised in the said country. Olorunyomi spoke when he spoke on the nexus between journalism and democracy at a two-day training organised by the Centre for Journalism and Innovative Development (CJID) in Lagos. He said journalism is a central project of democracy. “There’s no democracy when there is no citizenry,” he said. “Journalists should seek truth and report. Be accountable to readers and dedicated to public discourse.” Idris Akinbajo, managing editor of Premium Times, who spoke on investigative tips for reporting elections, urged participants to look out for issue-based reports. “Journalists should pay attention to candidates’ stand on issues like education, health care, economy, restructuring, fuel subsidy, privatisation, infrastructure, etc,” Akinbajo said. “Journalists should read and understand manifestos of candidates in order to be able to contextualise local and national issues with pledges made by candidates and their actions afterward.” He also advised journalists to be knowledgeable about what the electoral act says. On his part, Ajibola Amzat of the Centre for Collaborative Investigative Journalism (CCIJ), said journalists should learn to write stories with data. Hamzat said data-driven stories, supported with facts, are easy to read and understand. “We need data to tell stories. Data strengthens the credibility of a story,” he said. He added that journalists should learn to explain and interprete data. On his part, Kemi Busari, editor of Dubawa, said disinformation thrives as a result of lack of gatekeeping. He urged journalists to curb disinformation not only by fact-checking reports but also by sensitising readers on what to look out for when accessing news and information. Busola Ajibola, deputy director of CJID, who spoke on inclusivity during elections, called for the representation of all groups in journalism. She said groups at risk of exclusion during elections include people with disabilities (PWDs), people not literate in English, the elderly, pregnant women, and people who are ill. “Democracy thrives when citizens who are constitutionally eligible to vote or be voted for get an opportunity to participate and feel represented,” Ajibola said. “Poor gender mainstreaming and representation in storytelling undermine processes that can yield policies and solutions. “Journalists have a duty to facilitate participation, inclusion, non-discriminatory and accessibility through storytelling and news coverage.”