The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised Nigerians to support the party in the 2023 elections as part of efforts to “bring back the good days”. The party said this in a statement on Saturday by Debo Ologunagba, congratulating Nigerians on the new year. The PDP, while urging voters to be deliberate about their choices in the forthcoming elections, said with the party, Nigerians can be hopeful of a better country. “The new year presents an opportunity to strengthen our bond of unity as a people, resist all divisive voices and pursue a new beginning, away from the woes, economic hardship, killings and endless life-discounting experiences of the calamitous years of the rudderless, cruel and massively corrupt All Progressives Congress (APC),” the statement reads. “The year 2023 comes to our nation as a light at the end of the dark tunnel as Nigerians march to the polls with renewed vigour to expel the reckless and anti-people APC and elect a people-oriented leadership that truly cares as embodied in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and our Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar. “The year 2023 presents Nigerians the opportunity to achieve their long-standing desire to bring back the good days of the PDP in office so that the citizens can again enjoy economic prosperity, infrastructural development, massive employment, business opportunities, peaceful and harmonious living that characterised the PDP years in government, which have eluded our nation in the last seven and half years of the APC. “It is against this backdrop that the PDP charges Nigerians to jettison all personal, group, sectional, ethnic and religious sentiments, resist all anti-democratic elements and selfish diversionary voices who seek to derail the electoral process and subvert PDP’s mission to Rescue, Rebuild and Redirect our nation from the misrule of the APC.” The party urged President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that the forthcoming elections are credible, and asked the  Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to work towards ensuring a smooth electoral process. “It is instructive to state that at this moment, Nigerians are not ready or willing to accept any electoral outcome at any level that does not reflect the will of the people as expressed at the ballots,” the PDP added. “This is especially as the PDP Candidate, Atiku Abubakar, personifies the determination by Nigerians to forge a new direction of unity, national cohesion, good governance, and the economic prosperity that they yearn for. “The PDP prays for a peaceful, fulfilling, and rewarding 2023 to all Nigerians.”