The Interim Management Committee (IMC) has presented the sum of N200 million to be shared among all clubs in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). The fund distribution was announced at a media briefing in Abuja on Thursday. Each of the 20 NPFL teams was given N10 million ahead of the upcoming season. Gbenga Elegbeleye, chairman of IMC, said the funding serves as an aid to the clubs in their preparation for the new league campaign. He added that another financial support would be administered as the season progresses. “We are here today because we are about to start the new football season. In fulfilment of our promise to the clubs that we will support them through our corporate partners with the sum of N10 million as start-up fund,” Elegbeleye said. “We are doing that so it can be easy for the clubs to start the league without much stress. As the season goes by, there will be another financial support.” On his part, Ibrahim Gusau, president of the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF), said the initiative will “change the narrative of football in Nigeria”. “It is time to change the narrative of football in our country and it is time for our football to run well. We want to run our league the way it’s being run around the world. We must start next season in August and nothing can stop it. It’s time to get things right,” he said. TheCable had reported that the new NPFL season is scheduled to kick off on January 8. The league will be played in an abridged format with all 20 clubs drawn into two groups — A and B — with ten sides in each group. Group A has Plateau United, Gombe, Enyimba, Akwa United, 3SC, Remo stars, Kwara, Nasarawa, as well as newly promoted El Kanemi warriors and Bendel Insurance to tango among themselves. Group B includes Wikki Tourists, Abia Warriors, Dakkada, Rangers, Sunshine stars, Niger Tornadoes, Doma United, Lobi stars, and Bayelsa United. The top three teams from each group will proceed to a super six tournament that will determine the eventual winner of the campaign. The prize money for the NPFL season champion is N100 million.