The Nigerian Army has refused to shed light on the recent airstrike in Nasarawa state. Over 37 persons were killed in an explosion which occurred in Doma LGA between Nasarawa and Benue states on Tuesday. PRNigeria reported on Wednesday that a state government official gave the military the wrong location for the airstrike, leading to the incident. Musa Danmadami, director of defence media operations, however, said on Thursday that the army’s counter-insurgency operations are professionally conducted. “Like I said earlier on, operations are being carried out across the length and breadth of this nation. It is not only in Nasarawa state, Niger state or Benue state that we are conducting operations,” he said. “So, we are not going to dwell more on these incidences or whatever is being reported by the press but what I can tell you like I have been telling you before, the armed forces of Nigeria, we are very professional about the way we are carrying out our counter-insurgency operations across the country. “Our code of conduct is clear, our rules of engagement are clear and our targeting procedures are clear. “Majority of our operations are intelligent driven and all these our code of conducts, targeting procedures and rules of engagement are in tandem with international best practices and I assure you we will continue to conduct our operations in line with these procedures, regardless of what people are saying.” ’60 TERRORISTS KILLED IN JANUARY’ Danmadami said troops of Operation Hadin Kai, during multiple operations across the north-east, killed over 60 terrorists and rescued 12 abductees in January 2023. He said 267 terrorists, including their family members, surrendered to the troops in the region. “Notably, on 12 of January 2023 troops had a meeting engagement with Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists close to their locations in Kwatan Turare and Azir Bri villages in Kukawa and Damboa local government areas of Borno state. During the encounter, troops engaged the terrorists in a firefight and neutralized 5 terrorists while others fled with gunshot injuries,” he said. “Also, troops on 14th of January 2023 ambushed Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists close to Zanwa village in Gwoza local government area of Borno state. Following a firefight, troops neutralized 7 terrorists, while others fled. “On the same date, troops ambushed Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists along Rd Banki – Bula Yobe – Darel Jamel in Bama LGA and made contact. Following a firefight, troops neutralized 3 terrorists and recovered, 2 AK 47 rifles, 15 rounds of 7.62 mm special refilled ammo and one camel bag among other sundry items. “Equally, troops raided a Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorist’s enclave in Bula Tamsu village ahead of Ngurusoye in Bama local government area and made contact with the terrorists. Troops engaged and neutralized 2 terrorists while 2 bicycles were recovered and 6 kidnapped civilians were rescued. “Between 20 to 25 January 2023, troops conducted ambush operations to Loskori, Maina Hari villages in Mafa and Biu local government areas of Borno state. During the operation, troops neutralized 8 terrorists, apprehended 5 armed herders, 2 suspected vandals, 5 bandits and 4 terrorist logistics suppliers.” “Troops equally neutralised 42 terrorists, arrested 5 terrorists, 9 terrorist logistics suppliers, 2 suspected vandals, 5 bandits as well as 5 armed herders,” he added. “Troops also rescued 6 adopted civilians while a total of 267 terrorists and family members, comprising 22 adult males, 128 adult females and 117 children surrendered to troops at different locations of the north-east theatre of operation.” He added that the air component of Operation Hadin Kai, during air operations across terrorists’ hideouts, also killed several insurgents around the Lake Chad Basin and some areas of Borno.