The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to sack Yusuf Bichi, the director-general of the Department of State Services (DSS). The forum said this in a statement issued on Monday by Edwin Clark, leader of the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF); Ayo Adebanjo, leader of Afenifere; Pogu Bitrus, president of the Middle Belt Forum; and Okey Emuchay, secretary-general, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide. The forum said its demand for the sack of the DSS DG followed the recent attempt by the security agency to arrest Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). TheCable had reported how a federal high court in Abuja declined an application by the DSS to arrest Emefiele over terrorism charges. There were speculations that the bid to arrest Emefiele might be political, given the impact the redesign of the naira and limit on cash withdrawals might have on vote buying in the 2023 elections. Reacting to the development, the southern and middle belt leaders said the action of the DSS is a disservice to the country. “It is unthinkable that the DSS would so recklessly and casually, accuse Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, of “financing terrorism” and involvement in “Economic Crimes of National Security dimension”,” the statement reads. “This is not only baffling, but also a shameful disgrace to the Buhari Administration and the Country, and it is capable of unsettling the fragile socio-economic tractions of the country. “What is the evidence that the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, is involved in “Terrorism Financing”? If the allegations against the CBN Governor are genuine, why didn’t the DSS present its findings to the President for consideration and necessary action? “Truth be told, there are elements within, and outside, the Buhari administration that do not want Mr. Godwin Emefiele to remain in office, as Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria; the reasons are not farfetched. “Recall that barely forty-eight hours after the announcement of the redesign of the country’s currency by the CBN, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, disowned the Policy. “She went on to assert that the redesigning, which the apex bank said is aimed at fighting banditry and kidnapping for ransom, controlling the amount of money in circulation, fighting inflation and addressing issues of corruption and hoarding of naira notes by individuals, if implemented, would portend great consequences for the Country and its economy. “Similar disagreeable remarks were made by other top officials, with outrageous postulations and disparaging commentaries also peddled to discredit the person and Office of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria. “More importantly, SMBLF, calls for a thorough investigation of the incident, to determine officials and individuals behind the disgraceful and subversive plot, and appropriate sanctions must be meted out to anyone found culpable. “This is a very sensitive matter and must be given serious attention by the government. The misadventure has further brought to the fore the disturbing gaps and discordance in the Buhari administration, which account for the many policy conflicts and misdirection in the government.”