Ikedi Ohakim, a former governor of Imo, says a bulletproof vehicle saved his life when he was attacked by gunmen. Four persons were killed on Monday during an attack on Ohakim’s convoy in Oriagu, Ehime Mbano LGA of Imo state. Narrating his ordeal to The Niche, Ohakim said he would have died if not for God and the kind of vehicle he was in. “We were driving between Isiala Mbano and Ehime Mbano. These people blocked us at a place called Umualumaku. They attacked us from behind and were firing at our vehicles consistently. I thought I was a dead man and I was with two of my children – my son and daughter,” he said. “What saved me was the bulletproof vehicle. That I am alive today is by the special grace of God and the bulletproof vehicle. “But unfortunately for me, they killed four of our boys, including the driver. Yes, we lost four of the boys and I am devastated. How can that be? What crime did they commit? “They pursued us and continued firing at our tyres. Luckily, the vehicle has what is called run-flat tyres on which you can continue driving even after a puncture. So, even when they shot at the tyres hoping to immobilise us, the vehicle continued moving. If they were ordinary tyres and the vehicle had stopped, they would have cornered and finished us. “But the tyres held on until we got back home. We drove for about 20 minutes before we got home. That was the saving grace. “The driver who manifested a tremendous level of driving skill kept manoeuvring until he lost them at a junction when he went right and not knowing where we had gone, they headed the other direction on the road to Umuahia. “We then turned and went back to my house. We were there when Imo Government House sent reinforcement from Owerri who brought the corpses of my security people.” Ohakim also dispelled speculations that the attack was carried out by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) agitators. “This goes beyond the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), I must say,” the former governor said. “These are professionals, well-trained. They are not ordinary people. They were driving a blue BMW 5-series car, brand new. They came to kill me.”