Femi Adesina, special adviser on media and publicity to the president, says the sterling performance of Buba Marwa as the chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) shows Nigeria is redeemable. Adesina, in his weekly opinion article published on Friday, said Marwa’s seizures of illicit drugs and arrests of drug barons have saved many Nigerian youths and families from the “ravages of drug addiction”. “Give it to President Buhari. He has identified some round pegs for round holes in the country, given them the necessary support, and they are doing exploits. Buba Marwa is one of them,” he said. “Who says this country is irredeemable? Not with men of sterling character like Buhari and Marwa.” In September 2022, the NDLEA chairman was praised by Nigerians for the agency’s biggest singular cocaine seizure of 1.8 tonnes worth N194 billion. Adesina said the news of the seizure, which came as a shock to the president, was enough to disrupt lives across West Africa. “Yes, we can do it. On all fronts, in all spheres of life and endeavour, like Buba Marwa is showing. There are many hundreds, thousands of him around the country. They only need to be found, and given opportunities, as Buhari and those before him did to Marwa,” Adesina wrote. “Again, we were in New York last September, attending the 77th session of the United Nations General Assembly. News came from home that the NDLEA had seized 1,855 kilograms of cocaine in Lagos. Holy Moses! That was enough to overthrow not just Nigeria, but the entire West Africa. “After the President was informed of the landmark seizure, the first thing he said was; get me Buba Marwa on the phone. “He commended the NDLEA chairman for the great work he was doing, saving Nigerian youths, families, and society from the ravages of drug addiction.” Adesina said Marwa’s hard work as the NDLEA boss was one of the reasons why he was among the 437 persons bestowed with national honours. “President Buhari loves Gen. Marwa, just as he does anyone that loves and serves the country, working passionately for God and humanity,” he said. “It was, therefore, no surprise when National Honors were given last October, and Marwa was on the list. In 2003, he had earlier been given OFR, Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic. It was topped with CON. Commander of the Order of the Niger. Well deserved. “I am not surprised that every credible award in the land, and even beyond, has been given to Gen. Marwa in recent times. He’s one of our best, and an inspiration to adults and youths alike.”