The Kogi state government had given a further explanation on why it issued a query to Ado Ibrahim, the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland. The Kogi government had issued a query to the traditional ruler over his refusal to welcome Buhari when the latter visited the state on December 29 to inaugurate some projects. In a statement on Monday, Salami Momodu, commissioner for local government and chieftaincy affairs, said it has become imperative to brief the general public on the issues surrounding the query to the monarch after the letter was made public. Momodu said although the government had remodeled and reconstructed the Ohinoyi’s palace after consulting with the monarch, Ibrahim opted to live in his personal house instead of the palace. “That does not erase the fact that there is an official palace built over the years for Ohinoyi of Ebiraland. It was for this reason that when the idea to reconstruct the palace to make it befitting for the revered stool of Ohinoyi of Ebiraland was muted, he (Ohinoyi of Ebiraland) was sufficiently consulted and he gave his consent,” the letter reads. “Upon the completion of the project which has received commendation from far and wide and the date for the commissioning by the President was approved and announced, I personally paid a visit to Ohinoyi of Ebiraland and I duly informed him of the programme of event. “Although he responded negatively that he would not attend, I persuaded and entreated him to kindly attend in view of the importance of the project and especially the personality of the President that would commission the project. “It is now known to all and sundry that he made good his negative disposition not on any account of ill health or circumstances beyond his control, but a deliberate act of disloyalty and insubordination to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Executive Governor of Kogi State. “It may interest the public to know that the official visit of Mr President to Kogi State to commission projects was not limited to Okene alone, sundry projects were commissioned by the President in Lokoja, the State capital. To this effect, the President, Kogi State Council of Chiefs, His Royal Majesty, Matthew Alaji Opaluwa Oguche Akpa, Attah Igala, led other Royal Majesties and all 1st Class Chiefs from both East and West Senatorial Districts and from their far domains to receive the President at the designated venue in Lokoja. “It is therefore left for the public to judge if it was fair and appropriate for His Royal Majesty, the Ohinoyi of Ebiraland, whose private residence is a few meters away from the venue of the commissioning of the palace, and being the principal beneficiary of the project, to stay put in his house while all the Graded Chiefs within the Central Senatorial District were present in solidarity with him to honour and receive the President.” The commissioner said the state will not allow any person, no matter how highly placed, to “ridicule, humiliate and cast aspersion on or disdain the genuine intention” of the administration. ”Let the general public rest assured that Government will handle this matter with utmost objectivity devoid of any sentiment. The panel that will be set up to look into the matter will be dispassionate, diligent and rational and will ensure fairness, equity and justice,” the statement reads.