The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has, again, accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of masterminding a plot to postpone the forthcoming general election. In a statement on Friday, Debo Ologunagba, PDP’s national publicity secretary, alleged that the APC planned to take advantage of insecurity to “impose an undemocratic situation on our country”. “Our party had earlier alerted the nation of a well-oiled plot by the APC to orchestrate security situation and promote circumstances to warrant the postponement of the 2023 general elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),” the statement reads. “The APC and its presidential candidate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu know that they have no chance at all in the coming elections, having been rejected by Nigerians because of their multiple failures, recklessness, humongous corruption, violence and continuing infliction of pains, hardship and life-discounting experiences on Nigerians in the last seven and half years. “The APC and its leaders are desperate to use their doomsday orchestrations to frighten and blackmail INEC to alter the electoral schedule after which the APC will take advantage of the situation to unsettle the general election, foist a constitutional crisis and truncate the nation’s democratic process. “The PDP therefore charges INEC, as an independent institution, not to succumb to the blackmails of the APC but focus on its preparations and fix its eyes on delivering a free, fair, transparent and credible election on February 25, 2023.” This is not the first time the PDP is accusing the APC of trying to disrupting the general election. In December 2022, PDP alleged that the APC had directed its party members to “deploy violence and snatch power in the 2023 general election”. The PDP had also claimed that the recent attacks on INEC facilities constituted part of the APC’s plans to derail the conduct of the general election. ‘IRRESPONSIBLE STATEMENTS TO FILL MEDIA SPACE’ In reaction to the PDP’s claim, Bayo Onanuga, APC presidential campaign council spokesperson, described the PDP’s position as “senseless”. According to Onanuga, the accusations by PDP are a ploy to distract Nigerians from its “absentee presidential candidate”. Atiku Abubakar, PDP’s presidential candidate, had travelled to the United Kingdom on the invitation of the British government. The APC campaign council, however, claimed that Abubakar’s visit was for “some medical help.” Speaking further, Onanuga said the party has “nothing profitable again to engage in other than raising false alarms”. “We have nothing but pity for a party that has become a mess and total embarrassment to itself and its despondent members,” the presidential campaign spokesperson said. “For lack of nothing tangible to tell Nigerians six weeks  to a general election as its candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar disappeared from the campaign trail, PDP has resorted to making  irresponsible statements just to fill media space. “Nigerians are advised to ignore this senseless conjecture from PDP as there is no iota of truth in the allegation. “Knowing that it has no path to victory and no real agenda for development to sell to Nigerians by its absentee presidential candidate, PDP has nothing profitable again to engage in other than raising false alarms, manufacturing outright lies and disseminating innuendos to deceive the public. “PDP should know that Nigerians have rejected it and no amount of falsehood can redeem a political party that wrecked our economy, under its watch, created massive insecurity and looted money meant for  development. “President Muhammadu Buhari who has given this country the most credible elections both regular and off season since 2015 has consistently assured Nigerians, even up to two days ago that 2023 elections will hold.”