A social media user has claimed that the doctorate degree of Rabiu Kwankwaso, the former governor of Kano state and presidential flagbearer of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), is a fraud. On January 19, a Twitter user by the name, Ike Ihiala, tweeted: “Kwankwaso is an ‘academic fraud’. Kwankwaso in March 2022, claimed to have bagged a Ph.D in Water Engineering from Sharda private university, India. A check on the varsity site shows it has no PhD. program in Water Engineering. A PhD. holder with no published academic paper(s)?” The tweet gathered over 2,333 likes and 1,184 retweets. KWANKWASO IS AN 'ACADEMIC FRAUD' Kwankwaso in March 2022, claimed to have bagged a Ph.D in Water Engineering from Sharda private university, India. A check on the varsity site shows it has no PhD. program in Water Engineering. A PhD. holder with no published academic paper(s)? pic.twitter.com/9STF2kLH1p — Ike Ihiala (@HisKnowledgeabl) January 19, 2023  VERIFICATION In 2014, it was reported that in recognition of kwankwaso’s contributions to the education sector in Kano, he received an honorary doctorate from Sharda University in India. According to the university, Kano sponsored 165 students under the 100% scholarship program, while Kwankwso was governor of the state. Also, checks by TheCable revealed that in 2022, a Daily Trust publication reported that Kwankwaso was conferred a doctorate in water engineering from the same Sharda University in India. In March 2022, a picture was shared on a Facebook page, Kwankwasiyya Reporters, known for advancing the ideologies of Kwankwso’s movement.  “Congratulations to His Excellency Engr. Dr. Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso for your successful viva presentation in PhD Water Engineering today (14th March 2022) at Sharda University, India,” reads the caption of the post, accompanied by a picture of professors who were Kwankwaso’s supervisors and examiners. In academic circles, a viva presentation is an oral exam, where a student makes a presentation that covers all parts of the thesis, including the introduction, literature review, methodology, results, and conclusions. KWANKWASO LISTED AMONG DOCTORATE DEGREE RECIPIENTS Checks by TheCable revealed that the former governor was listed among recipients of doctorate degrees at Sharda University from 2016 till date. According to page 8 of the list, Mohammed Rabiu Musa enrolled for a Ph.D in 2018 and graduated in 2022.  Through a sworn affidavit submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC), on June 16, 2022, by Kwakwanso, the former governor declared that he would like to be officially identified as Mohammad Rabiu Musa and not Rabiu Musa Kwankwanso as he is popularly known. This helps to explain why the name Kwankwso didn’t appear in the list published by the university. KWANKWASO’S  ACADEMIC PAPER Using Google Scholar, TheCable found a paper published by the former governor of Kano state. In November 2020, Kwankwaso published an academic paper titled: “Design Optimization of Water Lifting Device in Kano, Nigeria”, in the International Journal of Advanced Research in Engineering and Technology (IJARET).  The paper was co-authored by Muhammad Isa Abdurrahman, Sameer Arora, and Gaurav Saini. VERDICT The claim that Kwankwaso doesn’t have a Ph.D is false. There is adequate evidence in the public space to show that he first received an honorary doctorate in 2014, and was conferred a Ph.D in water engineering in 2022, after defending his thesis. Also, the claim that the NNPP presidential candidate published no academic paper is false.