The All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council says the year 2023 provides Nigerians with the chance of having constant electricity supply and housing for the poor. The campaign council said this in its New Year message released by Bayo Onanuga, its spokesperson, on Saturday. Speaking on the 2023 polls, the presidential campaign council said the election is “significant” to the country, adding that Nigerians must exercise their civil right to vote. The campaign council urged Nigerians not to exchange their civil right to vote for money but see it as a sacrifice to consolidate the country’s democracy. “This is a duty that every citizen qualified to vote cannot transfer to another person. It is a responsibility that should not be exchanged for money,” the statement reads. “It is a sacrifice for the consolidation of democracy and federalism, the sacred values of our constitution. “Every vote is a testament of renewed hope, the certainty of victory over poverty and the conviction that our country carries within its bosom the potentials of the world’s next superpower, indeed, the first black superpower.” The APC presidential campaign council asked Nigerians to vote for the party in order to achieve the “dreams” of food security. “To move from where we are to where we want to be, we need to maximise our resources, feed ourselves with what we grow, give our youths education that we
make them excel, provide shelter for the homeless and bring constant electricity and technology to make production easier and convenient,” the statement said. “As the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Party, with 41 million registered members, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu presents the best vision for the future for our collective prosperity with pledges that are practical, immediate and valuable to our journey towards development. “The current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has tried its best in spite of its challenges. It is like building a tarmac, a solid, concrete foundation. “The coming administration of APC under the leadership of Asiwaju Tinubu and Senator Kashim Shettima, when elected, by the goodwill of Nigerians, shall put an aeroplane on the tarmac already built by President Buhari that will take us at supersonic speed to our destination. “The world shall watch Nigeria soar higher and higher. Security, infrastructures, education, health, housing, tourism shall be transformed to provide jobs and boost the economy.”