Save the Children International (SCI) Nigeria, a charity organisation, says the country must step up investment in education. The organisation said this on Tuesday in a statement to mark this year’s International Day of Education (IDE). The 2023 edition of the annual event has the theme: ‘To Invest in People, Prioritise Education’. Speaking on the occasion, Save the Children lamented the rising rate of out-of-school children in Nigeria. The organisation said the data by UNICEF that the country’s out-of-school children has increased from 10.5 million to 18.5 million in 2022 means “there are millions of good reasons to step up investment in education”. It called on President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure accessible, inclusive, safe, quality, and free primary and secondary education that promotes lifelong learning opportunities for all children to realise their potentials. The UK-based charity also urged Buhari to make good his “commitment at the GPE Global Education Summit to increase education funding to 14% by 2022, 16.7% in 2023, 20% by 2024, and 22.5% by 2025”. “While we commend the Nigerian government for launching National Plan on Financing Safe Schools (2023 – 2026), we do appeal for its full implementation to guarantee the safety and security of children, teachers, school personnel and facilities,” the statement reads. Ibrahim Zanna Sunoma, deputy speaker of the national children parliament, said all hands must be on deck to ensure quality education in Nigeria. “Almajiri is also a child. There should be a deliberate effort by parents, government and NGOs in investing in their formal education. Education must be for all including children with disability and children on the street,” Sunoma said. “If they are not left out, believe me, we can change our tomorrow for the better. All hands must be on deck to ensure all children have free and quality education at all levels.” In the same vein, Famari Barro, country director, Save the Children International (SCI) Nigeria, said: “From all available records, children constitute a great number of the Nigerian population, and they are the future of the society. “Any investment in this category of the population through prioritising education will not only propel the economic development of Nigeria but also guarantee an enduring peace, stability, accelerated growth and sustainable development of the country.”