Conscience For Human Rights and Conflict Resolution (CHRCR), a civil society organisation (CSO) in Kogi, has appealed to Yahaya Bello, governor of the state, to intervene in the water scarcity in Lokoja and other parts of the state. According to NAN, the CSO said this on Saturday in a statement by Idris Miliki, its executive director. He said the suffering of residents without water was “very unfortunate and unacceptable”, adding that the situation has inflicted much hardship on millions of households, especially women and children. “Your Excellency, it may interest you to know that living has become unbearable for residents of Lokoja and other parts of the state as a result of the failure of the ministry to process and distribute potable drinking water to them for months,” the statement reads. Miliki said since the flood that ravaged Kogi in 2022, residents are yet to enjoy the provision of water, which is a basic responsibility of any government. He said despite the billions of naira used to establish the current water facility by the previous government, the current administration has failed to make water available. “Worse still, no single senatorial district can boast of water provided by Kogi Government, despite the location of River Niger and Benue in the state metropolis,” the statement reads. “Water is everywhere in Lokoja, yet there is not a drop to drink as people suffer daily looking for water to drink, as the government in place fails to provide water for them. “Water, they say is life, therefore making it available to citizens, is moral, religious and constitutional reasonability of any government, state or federal.” The CSO also called for the sack of Abdulmumuni Danga, commissioner for water resources. “Sir, we are appealing to you, as our action governor, to sack Mr Abdulmumuni Danga, the state Commissioner for Water Resources without further delay over his poor performance since assumption of office,” the statement reads. On January 18, Danga reportedly issued a public apology to all Kogi residents, over the water scarcity, and assured residents that the ministry was doing all it could to restore supply.