Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi, says he remains an “ardent mobiliser” for the candidacy of Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Bello spoke on Sunday during an interview on Channels Television. Earlier on Sunday, a report said Bello had “tactically” withdrawn his support for the former Lagos governor. The report noted that the Kogi governor was wary that Tinubu might support James Faleke, a lawmaker representing Ikeja federal constituency, for the APC governorship ticket in Kogi. Speaking during the interview, Bello, who is also the national youth coordinator of the APC presidential campaign council, described the report as “fake news”. “I woke up to see that particular fake news in the air today. There is definitely no fire not to talk of smoke in relation to the fake news they peddled,” he said. “It’s most unfortunate and I am urging all the law enforcement agents and all regulatory bodies regarding journalism and media practitioners that are practising in Nigeria to please live up to their responsibilities. “The current electoral empowers even INEC to investigate things like this and prosecute the liars, those who perpetrate fake news, especially as far as this election is concerned. “Let me further reassure millions of Nigerian youths and Nigerians, our followers and supporters across the world that I remain a very supportive, ardent supporter, mobilizer, campaigner, and driver of votes for our leader and president in the waiting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the flag bearer of our great party the All Progressives Congress and my own brother, his excellency Kashim Shettima. These are the president and vice-president in waiting.” Speaking on the alleged rivalry with Faleke, Bello said the federal lawmaker is his brother and that they are working towards a common goal to secure victory for APC in February. On power rotation in the state, the governor said his administration had changed the dynamics in the state, noting that the people don’t longer care about the region, religion, and tribe their leaders come from. “Faleke is my brother. I don’t ever consider honourable James Faleke as a political rivalry because he is a house of representatives member at the national assembly,” the governor said.