The Atiku/Okowa campaign organisation says residents of Kogi have “rejected the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Bola Tinubu, its presidential candidate”. Kola Ologbondiyan, the Atiku campaign spokesperson, said this in a statement on Sunday. He said the support shown to Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), at the campaign rally in Kogi on Saturday is proof that PDP will win in the state. “The Atiku/Okowa Campaign Organisation commends the people of Kogi State for coming out with a massively unprecedented crowd in solidarity with its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, at the State Rally held in Lokoja on Saturday,” the statement reads. “The massive support demonstrated by the people of Kogi State, especially the youths, towards Atiku Abubakar and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) further confirms their decisiveness to vote in Atiku Abubakar as the next President of Nigeria. “Our Campaign appreciates the support of various groups including professionals in various fields, government workers, traditional institutions, faith-based groups, business community, traders, artisans, transporters, farmers, among others, towards Atiku Abubakar and the PDP. “The people of Kogi State amply demonstrated that Kogi, just like majority of the States of the federation, is home to the PDP and that Atiku Abubakar will record a sweeping victory across Kogi State and others to emerge victorious at the first ballot at the close of the February 25th presidential poll. “Our campaign salutes the courage, resilience and energy which the youths of the State displayed at the rally, which signposts their preparedness to come out en masse to vote for Atiku Abubakar on February 25, 2023 and to stand in defence of their votes to the very end. “The people of Kogi State, like majority of millions of Nigerians in other States, have rejected the incompetent, violent, corrupt and anti-people All Progressives Congress (APC) and its Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and they are eager to vote in Atiku Abubakar and the PDP which embody their hope, aspiration and determination for a better nation. “The Campaign charges the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to note the feelings and aspirations of the majority of the people and take steps to ensure free, fair, secure and credible elections across the nation.” He encouraged Nigerians who are yet to pick up their permanent voter cards (PVCs) to do so in order to mobilise for PDP and “end the misery which the All Progressives Congress (APC) has come to represent”. Meanwhile, Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi, is the national youth coordinator of the APC presidential campaign council.