Shri Balasubramanian, India’s high commissioner to Nigeria, says trade between both nations has hit $19 billion in the last 40 years. Balasubramanian said this while commenting on trade between both countries during a courtesy visit to NAN in Abuja, on Wednesday. The envoy, according to NAN, said bilateral relations between the two nations have been excellent, adding that more would be done to further deepen India-Nigeria ties in healthcare delivery. Balasubramanian, who stressed on the volume of trade, said more than 135 Indian companies have so far invested $19 billion in Nigeria in the past four decades of diplomatic relations. He also said Nigeria’s invitation as a guest participant to the G20 summit scheduled to hold from September 9 and September 10, 2023, in New Delhi in India, would boost the opportunity to showcase the priority of developing countries to the world. On his visit to the agency, the envoy explained that the aim was to promote information and communication exchange between the two countries. He also plans were afoot to offer 500 Nigerians scholarships in 2023. “We will be having a group of journalists from Nigeria go to India, not on a course, but actually a field visit being organised to expose India,” Balasubramanian said. “In other words, what India has been doing in the area of politics. We will not be doing it exclusively for Nigeria, but for West Africa, for about 30 people. “I am sure that Nigeria, being a part of G20, will be able to get more numbers, so we will be doing it after March and April. “I will discuss it with you to get your recommendations also. We do award 500 scholarships every year to Nigerians, 250 of them are on the civilian side. “We will be happy to reintroduce further studies in the area of mass communication in a prestigious place and we have short-term courses also.” Balasubramanian added that the scholarship involved other courses that journalists could be interested in. “We work on a calendar basis and our financial year comes to a close in March,” he said. “So, April to March is our calendar through which we do all these things. “Currently, it is two and a half months that are available, but come April it will be the first 250 and we will be happy to continue these things.” On his part, Buki Ponle, managing director, NAN, commended Balasubramanian for the visit which intends to deepen relations on information sharing and news networks between the two countries.