The African Center for Justice and Human Rights (ACJHR) says the Department of State Services (DSS) will rubbish President Muhammadu Buhari and the judiciary if it arrests Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Recently, it emerged that the DSS had approached a federal high court in Abuja seeking a warrant to arrest Emefiele over allegations that he was involved in terrorism financing and economic crimes. But J.T Tsoho, the chief judge, declined the application and held that the secret police did not provide any concrete evidence to substantiate its claims. There were suggestions that the bid to arrest Emefiele might be political given the impact the redesign of the naira and limit on cash withdrawals might have on vote-buying in the elections. In a statement on Monday, Abubakar Isa, spokesperson of the civil society organisation (CSO), said it would be “recklessness” on the path of the secret police if it goes ahead to arrest the CBN governor despite a court order. “The court, as the last hope of the citizen, has made a pronouncement on the legal rights and obligations of citizen Godwin Emefiele, it behooves all agencies of government to obey the order of the court until such order is set aside by an appellate court,” Isa said. “The constitutional role of the judiciary as the third arm of government includes serving as a bulwark against oppression and intimidation. Regrettably, this hallowed principle appears to mean little to the country’s political leadership despite decades of democracy. “In a display of recklessness, DSS is about to exhibit defiance to a lawful court order, thereby violating a major pillar of democratic governance and an orderly society. “A major hallmark of democratic governance is the principle and practice of the separation of powers. DSS will be rubbishing President Muhammadu Buhari and the judiciary if they go after Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele despite court order barring them over the alleged trumped up charges of terrorism financing.”