Hope Uzodimma, the governor of Imo, says President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the deployment of advanced technology to tackle insecurity in the south-east. He said this on Tuesday while speaking with journalists after a meeting with Buhari at the presidential villa in Abuja. “I also appealed to him to further support us with some technological deployment we have planned, to be able to do an advanced kind of security control in the south-east. And he has also given his approval to that,” he said. “And any moment from now, we’ll be getting some surveillance equipment and some modern technologies that will help us manage security so that we can fight crime with little or no collateral damage to the environment. “My people have seen a lot of things. If you go to the south-east, in Imo state for instance, we got the approval of Mr President that has now enabled the government of Imo to partner with the Nigerian Navy to dredge Oguta river to Orashi river to the sea, and that is opening up that maritime route. “If there is a naval base, we will now manage and control pipeline vandalism, crude oil theft, and all forms of criminality that besieged that area for a very long time. And the crime rate has gone down tremendously since the naval base was established. “Those who are fighting me in my state are not saying we’re not working. They’re not saying we’re not developing the place. They are not accusing us of corruption. All they are saying is that ‘they are contriving, instigating insecurity out of desperation’, and then blaming the security on a government. “I’m at the subnational level and the critical security measures are managed and controlled by the federal government. So, I cannot be blamed for insecurity, because you cannot single out Imo state. National security is about the 36 states of the federation and FCT inclusive. “So, I think we’ve done so well. And I’m happy, by the grace of God, as soon as we’re able to bring the security to naught, we’ll have an environment that we will all celebrate and be happy with.”