The presidency has reacted to a claim by Tanko Yakasai, elder statesman, that President Muhammadu Buhari is not showing the necessary support for Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The presidency’s reaction was contained in a statement on Wednesday by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesperson. Yakasai is a co-founder of the Grand Patron of the Grassroots Movement for Asiwaju Tinubu and Shettima (G-MATS). In an interview published by Control TV on January 22, Yakasai had alleged that Buhari is not loyal to Tinubu’s campaign to become the country’s next president. “Is he [Buhari] committed to Tinubu for the presidency? I have my doubts. I don’t know. But I have not seen the commitment from him of supporting the candidacy of Tinubu in APC. I’m not sure if he’s APC or not. Definitely, the personality of Tinubu doesn’t make him happy, I think, from my assessment of the situation,” Yakasai had said. Reacting, Shehu dismissed the elder statesman’s claim, adding that he needs “a little help”. “Alhaji Tanko Yakasai is unknown to the All Progressives Congress, APC. Everyone is entitled to their view, but what we do know is that his insight in a recent interview does not come from within the party or the President’s team. His support for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is welcome although it is difficult to see what value it will add,” Shehu said. “He is right to highlight his experience as a senior citizen, a leader in government and ability to reach out across divides are strong foundations for the highest office. “But Yakasai’s questioning of the loyalties of President Muhammadu Buhari stands in sharp contrast to the actions of the President. Only on Monday, he was out at a rally in Bauchi supporting the flag bearer of the party. Presidential duties permitting, he is scheduled to make further appearances at campaign events in the coming weeks. ”His support for the party’s candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is unquestioned. “If this wasn’t on TV, Yakasai’s unwise comment on the issue would have been dismissed as a misquotation. But he was live on TV. “On this one against President Buhari, no one should take him seriously. Perhaps times are hard and the old man needs a bit of help.”