Datti Baba-Ahmed, the vice-presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), got emotional over insults at his family while appearing on a television show. Baba-Ahmed on Sunday appeared together with Peter Obi, his principal, on Channels Television for a town hall meeting. In a video, Baba-Ahmed is seen getting emotional over insults at his family. He said, “that is not fair”, adding that no one has ever insulted his father who died at least 35 years ago until he joined the presidential race. “When people think they have money, they have power, and the sitting authority is theirs, there’s no limit. Someone has to tap them on the shoulder. I did it and I pointed a finger. You do it again – do one, I’ll do three. You know I’m capable of doing it,” Baba-Ahmed said. VIDEO: Datti gets emotional over insults on his father#NigeriaDecides2023 pic.twitter.com/QPIqK3zlgM — TheCable (@thecableng) January 9, 2023  “They’ve stopped. However, me and my family have been paying a huge price for my attempts to rescue Nigeria. They sent all sorts of people after me. “Thirty-five years ago, at least, our dad of blessed memory passed away. No one ever insulted him until I joined elections for presidency. This is not fair. It doesn’t happen anywhere in the world. “You don’t insult people’s parents or their families. It’s a huge price for anyone to pay,” Baba-Ahmed said as he got emotional. In December 2022, Femi Fani-kayode, former aviation minister, in a twitter post insulted the father of the LP vice-presidential candidate. Fani Kayode described him Datti Baba-Ahhmed as “the son of a Mauritanian cow-lover and itenerant refugee”. “I told you this creature doesn’t have a brain. Gaffe after gaffe, stupidity after stupidity! What else can you expect from the son of a Mauritanian cow-lover and itenerant refugee?The man is nothing more than a Mauritanian almajiri and chronic ignoramus,” Fani-kayode said. “He should be be rounded up, placed in chains, put in a cow pen and deported back to Mauritania where he came from.”