Adejare Bello, Nigeria’s ambassador to Mexico, says Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has a legendary human cultivation prowess that would help him to turn around Nigeria. Bello said this in a statement he personally signed, and made available to TheCable on Thursday. He said the APC candidate is a non-religious bigot and a strategist with unparalleled developmental strides. ” I was never a member of the progressives nor am I a member of his enlarged political family,” he said, citing himself as a beneficiary of Tinubu’s neutrality. “His human cultivation prowess is legendary. His plantation of human and social capital is vast. They are everywhere you turn. “He has the capacity to lead the country because of his track record. He has the capacity to appoint those who will turn Nigeria around. As a governor in Lagos State, he appointed commissioners from Anambra, Delta Ogun, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Kwara to mention but few.” ” I have always been a lover of his immense capacity for hard work, capacious memory, integrity, fierce commitment to any cause he believes in, and genuine patriotism as well as faith in Nigeria.” He said the former governor of Lagos is a  detribilised Nigerian who is focused, and always ready to help others. Bello added that Tinubu’s “very act of giving back to the community boosts his happiness, health, and sense of well-being”. Speaking on his traits, he said: “his courage, resilience, selflessness, and nobility in always placing the welfare and unity of the nation above self, backed by the vision of a greater Nigeria through investments in the people, institutions, and governments, without minding tribe or creed has endeared him to me.” “He has been betrayed, bad-mouthed, and subjected to unprintable tackles in the course of his political activities. His resounding success has drawn for him an army of foes and envious angry bees who wish they were him. Many of those that drank copiously from his benevolent well have turned round to betray him. “But what stands Tinubu out is his readiness to forgive so easily and open his hands to the warm embrace of his betrayers. This large-heartedness has paid him tremendously.”  