Dapo Abiodun, Ogun state governor, says his administration plans to explore oil prospects in Tongeji Island and Olokola in 2023. The governor said this in his New Year message on Monday. Tongeji Island is located in the Ipokia LGA of the state while Olokola is situated in the Ogun Waterside LGA. In 2021, the governor had said Ogun would assume an ‘oil-producing status’ considering ‘oil-rich deposits’. He noted that the government will achieve the feat by stepping up efforts to work with technology partners and investors. Aside from the people, Abiodun said the state is also endowed with untapped natural resources that his government is willing to explore. “As the year progresses, we shall commence the implementation of some of our other initiatives: We will be partnering with others in the private sector in exploring the oil prospects of our state in the Tongeji Island and Olokola,” he said. “We have no doubt that with the right technical partners and investors, Ogun state will soon proudly join the comity of oil-producing states in Nigeria. “We will, through our rural electrification programme, provide solar-powered lighting systems for our underserved communities.” Furthermore, Abiodun said his administration will continue to invest in the provision and supply of water. “We already started this by carrying out a major overhaul of the Arakanga water works gates, which has provided for the adequate storage and supply of potable water to the people of Abeokuta and its environs,” he said. “We will also commence laying new pipes across the state to replace the old ones laid over fifty years ago, alongside the implementation of other creative initiatives which on completion, will solve the perennial shortage of water in any part of our state. “We are determined to provide a statewide steady supply of electricity through the implementation of our ‘light up Ogun project’, this will allow us to generate uninterrupted power to our major towns and cities, from an independent power project through a public-private partnership (PPP) joint venture. “We believe this will free up more power supply to our smaller towns and villages thereby improving the overall supply to the entire state. “We will also soon be implementing our e-mobility and gas mobility projects through which all our motorcycles will be battery powered and our mass transport system will be powered by compressed natural gas.”