Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says the petrol scarcity as well as the naira redesign will not affect his chances of securing victory. Tinubu spoke on Wednesday at the APC presidential rally that held at the MKO Abiola stadium in Abeokuta, the Ogun capital. The APC presidential candidate alleged that there were plans by saboteurs to disrupt the forthcoming elections. He said the elections would be a revolution, adding that his administration would put an end to the petrol crisis if he is elected. “Hide the petrol, hide the naira, we will still vote! We will win!” Tinubu said. “Even if you change the ink on naira notes, what you want will not happen. We will win. That umbrella party will lose. We will take this government from them — saboteurs that are dragging power with us. “This is the revolution. This election is a revolution. They said fuel will be expensive — will be N200, N500. Put your mind at rest, we will bring it down. They don’t want the election to hold. They want to disrupt it. Will you allow that? Will you vote? “Whether there is fuel or not, I am bringing the revolution. They think they can cause problems. They sabotaged fuel but with or without, if we get motorcycle, tricycles or not, we will still go out to vote and win!” The APC candidate promised to ensure that students enjoy quality education, adding that jobs will be available. “I guarantee you one thing. There will be student loans. Nobody will drop out of university because of school fees. Nobody will have to repeat one class for eight years and not graduate. We are too smart; we are brilliant, and courageous. We will make a four-year course four years,” he said. “A Tinubu administration will create over one million jobs in ICT in the next 24 months. The fine and skilled graduates of the Ogun tech hub will be able to find work as they continue to contribute towards our overall economic well-being. “My industrial policy will carry you to the finish line. My plan is to deploy all available measures, from tax credits and youth employment incentives to tariffs to affordable loans and investment, so that your industrial base is strengthened, broadened, and widened. “This will produce more wealth and valuable goods, improve the living standards of all Nigerians. It will also spur such job creation in Ogun that everyone looking for work will be able to find it. We will seek to cut youth unemployment nationwide by a third.”