Issues regarding debts, insecurity, cash withdrawal policy, and the elections dominated the cover pages of Nigerian newspapers. The Punch reports that governors of 28 states and the minister of the federal capital territory have piled up about N5.8 trillion in sub-national debts. The newspaper says condemnations have continued to trail the increase in electricity tariffs by power distribution companies, with consumer groups and industry experts describing the hike as illegal. The Nation says supporters of the G5 governors in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have been kept in suspense on who to vote as president on February 25. The newspaper reports that Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has promised to transform internet fraudsters, popularly known as “Yahoo Boys”, by creating technological hubs for them, if elected president. Daily Trust says the Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) has banned cash withdrawals from all bank accounts belonging to the federal, state, and local governments, effective March 1, 2023. The newspaper reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has devolved the collection of permanent voter cards (PVCs) to wards and registration areas. THISDAY says G5 governors were greeted with surprise in Ibadan, Oyo state capital, at the official launch of Seyi Makinde’s second term bid in office, as chants of the name of Atiku Abubakar, PDP presidential candidate, rent the air. The newspaper reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has disclosed that the February 25 presidential election results would be collated at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja. The Guardian says stakeholders across business communities have said insecurity, financial leakages, free fall of the naira, rising debt, and other factors could stall economic progress, as the country heads into elections. The newspaper reports that 613 rehabilitated low-risk repentant terrorists will be transferred to their state governments for reintegration into society. 