The Nigeria Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) says it has sealed 14 filling stations for dispensing petrol above approved pump price in Kano. Aliyu Sama, NMDPRA coordinator in the state, said this during a monitoring and surveillance exercise on Thursday in Kano. He said the filling stations were shut down for selling petrol between N295 and N300 per litre above the fixed pump price of N250 to N280 per litre. The sealed stations include Azman oil and gas, Maiduguri road; Red Star, Allah na Nan, Zaria road; A Y Mai Kifi, Western bypass, SID Zaria Road; Alaj Petroleum Co. Limited, and Danlami petroleum. Others are Audu Manager and sons Limited; Rimi Holdings Nigeria Limited; Rabash Enterprises Nigeria Ltd; IDM Makole Nigeria Ltd; Alhaji Ahmadu Ila and Sons; and Haab Investment Limited. The development comes amid measures by the authority to ensure marketers complied with regulatory procedures. “We have strict regulations to punish the offenders which include revoking their license of operation, sanctioning them on payment of penalty and invalidation of transaction,” Sama said. The NMDPRA coordinator said the filling stations were sealed following a breach of surveillance for confirmation discharge and price controls. “For now the sealed fuel stations will be sanctioned to pay the sum of N150,000 per pump nozzle so long as they are willing to revert to prices that are convenient for the public,” he said. He said major marketers that are depot owners were selling petrol at N185 per litre, adding that the authority also sealed more 120 filling stations in Kano in December 2022. “For any station that refuses to discharge or sell above stipulated price we will validate their equalisation transaction,” he said. “Invalidation is the authority that pays equalisation payment of N45 per liter for the fuel they transport from Lagos or Port Harcourt.” Last week, NMDPRA had sealed seven depots across Nigeria for illegal price hike. It also said it would take action against filling stations that under-dispense fuel at their pumps. “Underdispensing is another breach. Our surveillance are all over the place. As much as is possible within our limited resources, we want to make sure the regulations are complied with,” NMDPRA had said.