The youth wing of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council (PCC), says Bola Tinubu is the best option to move Nigeria forward. Aliyu Audi, the national youth spokesperson of the council, spoke at a youth forum with the theme — “Youth conversation on the renewed hope” — in Lagos on Sunday. Audi said Tinubu rescued the “nearly comatose economy” he inherited as governor of Lagos state in 1999. He said his achievements in Lagos and the depth of his policy action for Nigerians are what make him the best presidential candidate. “The youth represents a time for action, not talks. So, I’ll not bore you with a long speech, rather I’ll delve straight into why we are here,” Audu said. “This conversation is more about how the sum total of our commitments and collaborations as young people can advance our lofty dreams for our dear country. “We are here to possibly agree on one fundamental fact, and that is the fact that any of us sitting on the fence, as far as political participation is concerned, will not get us any closer to attaining our collective desire for a great nation. “In addition, the presidential candidate of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has pledged to deploy technology and the digital economy to create jobs. “He has also promised to work on delivering a student loan that would greatly ease the burden of students and also deliver reforms to guarantee a stable academic calendar in our tertiary institutions. “The APC candidate has also guaranteed to work on reforming our security system in order to make our uniformed men more professional and to operate strictly within the ambit of the law. Without a doubt, it is my firm conviction that Asiwaju remains the best option for Nigeria moving forward. “For those of us familiar with the nearly comatose economy inherited in 1999 when Asiwaju became governor of Lagos State and the spate of unlawful activities perpetrated by mostly young people; “His achievements in office, including the thriving entertainment and movie industry, enabled by his government which engaged many hitherto idle youths; we can assess his capacity to do a good job as Nigeria’s president. Based on his antecedents, competence, and record of service, we can almost be certain that Nigeria will advance forward under Asiwaju. “Like I said in the beginning, the greatness we seek for Nigeria will not just happen because we can dream or debate it on social media or whenever we come together as a group; it will only happen because all of us as a collective choose to take part when it matters the most. “Certainly, we can attain our collective desire for Nigeria if we all think together, band together, and work together with other stakeholders to drive this country toward its desired destination. “No doubt, the confident and proven display of capacity by young Nigerians in almost all sectors across the world can be said to be inspired by the spirit of patriotism and tenacity displayed by our past heroes in their prime. “As youth on whose shoulders rest the burden of ensuring that we safeguard this country, both for ourselves and the generations to come, we must first recognize and appreciate the contributions of older folks as we seek to work with them in order to blend their experience with our own dynamism as innovative, energetic and resourceful young people on a quest for a greater Nigeria. Our approach should be that of cooperation, and not antagonism.” Audi called on youths in the country to support Tinubu’s presidential ambition based on his “character, competence, pedigree”. 