Emmanuel Badejo, the Catholic Bishop of Oyo Diocese, says Nigerians should vote for leaders who prioritise the wellbeing of the less privileged. “So, secure your PVC and vote your own choice. We must produce leaders with integrity and a good track record, who follow not the logic of the survival of the fittest, but the survival of the weakest, therefore, a nation where truth and justice will reign,” Badejo said in a New Year message titled ‘No place for prophets of doom’. He urged Nigerians to work and pray to take the country back from the grip of corruption, selfishness, criminality, and other evil practices. The Catholic priest added that Nigerians should shun “prophets of doom”. “I ask Nigerians to shun prophets of doom who around this time annually come up with hackneyed, visions and messages of doom. Better to listen more to Jesus who says: “Do not be afraid, I am with you”, “I am the way the truth and the life,” he said. He cited Ghana where the government has issued an arrest warrant against fake prophets, noting that Nigerians can also borrow a leaf. “What use is prophetic declarations that do not eventually bring people nearer to God,” Bajedo asked. Reacting to the state of the nation, he called on Nigerians to deploy their legitimate strengths and resources “to snatch our country back from the threshold of total chaos”. “We have another opportunity especially through the general elections to truthfully and courageously choose leaders who will pursue our common good and not their selfish dreams,” he said. According to the clergyman, the power of the people, which is greater than that of those in power, would prevail at the polls if used correctly. He, however, cautioned Nigerians against vote buying and selling during the elections. “I see that Nigeria will make it, once the citizens decide live by the truth. Let us resolve firmly not to buy or sell our votes. It is a crime before the State and a sin before God to buy or sell votes. Vote according to your conscience and experience.”