The Delta police command says its operatives killed one Bobo Ononibe, a suspected leader of a notorious armed robbers gang in the state. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Bright Edafe, police spokesperson in Delta, said Ononibe was killed in a gunfight with officers in the Unukpo-Orogun area of the state. “On 13/01/2023 at about 1645hrs, acting on a tip-off that some suspected notorious armed robbers who have been on the command’s wanted list over their involvement in a foiled robbery operation on 23/06/2022 in Orogun community were seen gathered within the Unukpo-Orogun palm tree plantation. The DPO Orogun division in a proactive move to forestall another attack, mobilised and led police operatives to the area,” the statement reads. “As they were approaching the scene, the hoodlums opened fire on the police which the police equally responded. The hoodlums took to flight due to the superior police firepower of the police but during the ensuing gun duel, the gang leader, one Bobo Ononibe ‘m’ aged 26yrs of Ufuoma Street, Unukpo-Orogun community, Ughelli North LGA, sustained serious gunshot injuries, he was taken to the hospital where he was later certified dead by the doctor on duty.” Edafe said weapons recovered from the suspects include one locally made cut-to-size gun, three cartridges, one machete, one dagger, and native charms, adding that efforts were on to arrest the fleeing members of the gang. The police spokesperson added that another suspected armed robber was killed by a mob on Monday for stealing cash and electronic gadgets in Ughelli LGA of the state. “DPO Agbarho Division received a distress call that some members of Ewherhe community Agbarho, Ughelli North LGA, caught a suspected armed robber along Ewherhe/Ovu road with one locally made cut-to-size double barrel gun and one live cartridge, some suspected stolen items which include, one iPhone 11 pro-max, one hp laptop, one mp3 player and a cash sum of N8,220 and that the suspect was being mobbed,” Edafe said. “The DPO detailed patrol teams to proceed, on getting to the scene, the mob escaped leaving the suspect badly beaten. Although the suspect was rescued and taken to the hospital, he died while receiving treatment,” he added.