Gunmen have reportedly abducted 18 persons during attacks on communities in Sabon Birni and Isa LGA of Sokoto state. Confirming the development to TheCable on Sunday, Musa Muhammad, head of the vigilante group in Sabon Birni, said the attacks occurred on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. The development comes days after gunmen reportedly killed many residents and kidnapped about 50 people during attacks on Goronyo, Gada, and Sabon Birni LGAs of Sokoto. Mohammad said the gunmen abducted nine people at Kwaren Gamba village in Sabon Birni LGA on Thursday, while two persons were abducted from their farms in the same area on Friday. He said the attackers carted away donkeys and goats on Friday. The vigilante head said Gazau village in Isa LGA was invaded on Saturday, adding that seven residents were abducted in the process. “The armed bandits kidnapped nine people at Kwaren Gamba village around 4:30 pm on Thursday. Their names are as follows: Ahmadu Maigari, Mal Lauwali, Lauwali Isah, Yau Dan Salau, Ibrahim Tamayo, Ibrahim Nagabas, Andulkadir Maigari, Mamuda Dansakai, and Ibrahim Dakwaro. The incident happened at Kwaren Gamba village in Kurawa ward Sabon Birni LGA,” he said. “The armed bandits also kidnapped two persons from Gatawa village on Friday on their farms. The attack happened at about 8:30am. Also, they attacked Kwaren Gamba village around 5pm. They rustled some donkeys and goats in Kurawa ward in Sabon Birni LGA. “They also kidnapped seven people at Gazau village around 11:20am on Saturday in Isa LGA. They gathered at Fajimo forest yesterday around 6pm; they were more than 20 seen around the forest. Also, today at about 7pm, over 30 of the bandits entered a forest Unguwar Lalle ward in Sabon Birni LGA.” When contacted, Sanusi Abubakar, police spokesperson in the state, confirmed the attack but said the exact number of residents kidnapped is yet to be ascertained. “Yes, we have confirmed some of the attacks but we will get back to you on the actual figure of people abducted,” he said. “We confirmed the incidents. Investigation is ongoing. I will get the details across to you. We have confirmed the incidents.”