Lucky Irabor, chief of defence staff, says the armed forces has plans in place to support the police during the general election. He said this on Sunday in his address during the Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration, held at the national arcade in Abuja. He said the military is prepared to support the police and other security agencies to ensure a smooth electoral process. “I think for Nigerians, rest assured that the armed forces remain solidly behind the police to give them all the support as required,” Irabor said. “I’m sure you know that the police are on the lead. I have been discussing with the IGP (inspector-general of police), and of course, we’ve also made contingencies should we be required to give support to the police as the election is conducted.” He also said there is nothing to worry about regarding coup attempts in the country, adding that democracy is “here to stay”. Military coups have become a feature in West African countries in recent months. In 2022, Burkina Faso experienced two military takeovers, while Guinea Bissau, The Gambia, and Sao Tome and Principe experienced attempted coups. In 2021, there were six coup attempts in Africa, with four carried out successfully. Speaking at the event in Abuja, Irabor said the coups pose no threat to Nigeria’s democracy. “Democracy has come to stay. Government of the people, by the people and for the people in Nigeria has come to stay. That is an assurance,” he said. The Armed Forces Celebration, which honours the memory of the nation’s fallen heroes, is marked across the country every year, involving a series of activities, including religious services, parades, and wreath laying ceremonies. In attendance at the event in Abuja were President Muhammadu Buhari; Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Ahmad Lawan, senate president; Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house of representatives; and Olukayode Ariwoola, chief justice of Nigeria. Also in attendance were Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation; Ibrahim Gambari, chief of staff to the president; and Babagana Monguno, national security adviser.