Joseph Edgar, also known as the Duke of Shomolu, on Sunday, organised the “ordinary man version” of a presidential town hall meeting. The meeting had five Nigerians — representing the major political parties — debate issues around security, health, economy and education. The parties include the All Progressives Congress (APC), Labour Party (LP), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), and Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). The programme was organised in partnership with TheCable and The Alvin Report. Representing the APC, Tope Fasua said Nigeria needs a president like Bola Tinubu, the party’s flagbearer, who will enable a smooth transition if elected. “Nigeria is in a lot of trouble economically and otherwise. This is not the time to experiment. This is the time for a smooth transition. This not a time to bring in a government that will go on a prosecution spree to say let us deal with those guys and all of that,” he said. “We saw what happened in 2015 with Buhari coming in and I don’t think we should repeat that. I think that if there is any other time we should have a very smooth transition, this is the time.” Speaking on the plans for the economy, Fasua said the APC is promising 10 percent GDP growth, adding that the party will double the economy within six to seven years. Theo Philips, who represented LP, said Nigerians should not allow tribalism to interfere with their choice of a presidential candidate, adding that the upcoming election is an “opportunity to walk away from the old establishment”. Philips said LP is willing to rebuild the pillars of the economy through education and also ensure accountability. Murtala Mohammed, Kogi state coordinator of NNPP, said Rabiu Kwankwaso, the party’s presidential candidate, has a good ideology and is capable of getting it right if elected. Mohammed said the party is planning to enhance the country’s economy. Osai Umweni, who represented PDP, said Atiku Abubakar, the party’s standard bearer, has the experience to lead Nigeria to greatness, adding that ” there is no aspirant that has had such experience of leading the country”. Umweni said the PDP has an agenda on security, economic prosperity, education and restructuring, adding that all key sectors sidelined by past governments will be transformed. Babangida Daso, a member of the presidential campaign council for PRP, said the party has the key to the problems of Nigeria, adding that it has a track record of delivering on its promise. “PRP is coming out to say all our policies from education, fiscal policies, foreign affairs, the central theme of our policies will be the Nigerian people. These other parties do not care about Nigerians,” he said.