Two members of the presidential campaign council of the All Progressive Congress (APC) have resigned from the council. The resignation comes less than two months to the presidential election, scheduled to hold on February 25. Ahmed Ibeto, assistant secretary of the north-central directorate of mobilisation of the council, announced his resignation from the party in a letter on Tuesday. According to the letter, addressed to the chairman of the APC in Magama LGA of Niger state, Ibeto cited internal conflict, threats, and lack of commitment by members as part of his reasons for resigning. “I write you with all sense of humility, respect and regards as the Chairman of APC, Ibelu Central Ward, to convey to you the resignation of my membership of All Progressives Congress from today 3rd of January, 2023,” the letter reads. “Mr. Chairman, with my many years of active participation in politics and as a former party administrator and elected official into many political offices, I have come to this conclusion for many reasons. “Chiefly among which are: the absence of unity of purpose among party members and stakeholders occasioned by internal conflicts, unending litigations, internal threats and counter threats of anti-party activities, lack of genuine reconciliation, coupled with lack of commitments and dedications to the success of the party by many stakeholders. “For these obvious reasons, I concluded that I cannot continue to be a member of the party. “Mr. chairman, by this resignation, I cease to be a member of the presidential campaign council, assistant secretary of the North-central directorate of mobilization and all organs and committees of the party.” ‘LACK OF CREDIBLE CANDIDATE’ Meanwhile, in a letter on Sunday, Zanna Ali, a member of the council’s directorate of national youth mobilisation, also resigned his membership of the council. He announced his decision in a letter addressed to James Faleke, secretary of the council. “I humbly wish to write and inform your respected office that, I, Zanna Bukar Ali, a member of the presidential campaign council, directorate of national youth mobilization under the distinguished leadership of His excellency Alh. Yahaya Bello, the national coordinator of the national youth mobilization of the PCC with serial number 51 national youth mobilization north-east directorate, wish to tender my resignation as a member of the committee forthwith,” the letter reads. “My resignation applies to all other APC presidential support groups and all other APC support groups that [are] campaigning for His excellenicy Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu/Kashim Shettima ticket. “I have been a loyal party member from 2015 to date with numerous contributions to the party especially in 2019 presidential campaigns. “I am grateful to my former party and my principal in the party for my appointment as a member of the committee. It is indeed a great honour for me to part of the committee but I believe that the national interest supersedes my personal interest. “And based on the inability of the party to present a credible candidate for Nigerians is another reason why I took my decision as a concerned Nigerian. “On this note, I resolved to resign my appointment as a member of the committee, grateful for your understanding in this regard.”