Dare Akogun, the news editor of Ilorin-based Sobi FM, says Nigerians need to support prisoners in order to make their stay in detention conducive. He said this during a recent visit to the Mandala medium custodial centre in Ilorin, the Kwara capital. Akogun said he celebrated with over 400 inmates, and also donated clothing and other items to the inmates. He said it would be helpful if Nigerians can contribute to the well-being of inmates because the government cannot do it alone. He recalled when he was remanded alongside AbdulRasheed Akogun, his brother, at the custodial centre in October 2022 over allegations of defaming a Kwara state government official. Though the charge was later withdrawn after they spent six days in detention, Akogun said it was the encouragement of visitors that helped him cope during the period. He added that inmates are also part of society and must not be discriminated against, but rather shown love and compassion. “When I was here in October [2022], so many people took their time to visit me in this place, and their words of encouragement helped me a great deal to cope during the period I was here,” he said. “My time inside here made me realise that life inside the prison is a lesson that can only be learnt only if it’s experienced. “I decided to celebrate my birthday with you guys in reciprocation of the love I was shown while I was here, and the support of well-meaning Nigerians who supported this cause with donations that have made today possible. “I want to use this opportunity to call on well-meaning Nigerians to always remember prison inmates not only in times of celebration, but every time they believe they have whatever it takes to support them and make their stay in prison conducive.” Oyedele Asiyanbi, officer in charge of Mandala correctional centre and assistant controller of corrections (ACC), commended Akogun and his friends for remembering the inmates. “I want to urge you to use your medium to enlighten the people and call on well-meaning Nigerians on the need to inculcate the habit of visiting the prisons for motivational talks and donating items that will make the prison conducive for inmates,” he said. See photos below.      