Festus Keyamo, spokesperson of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council, says the Labour Party (LP) has no chance of winning the presidential election. The minister of state for labour and employment said the LP is “doing better than expected” with the arrival of Peter Obi as the standard-bearer of the party. He, however, said the party lacks the nationwide support base to muster a victory at the presidential poll. Keyamo spoke on Tuesday night during an interview on Channels Television’s Politics Today. He also said the actions of the aggrieved governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is a plus for the APC. “I want to let all Nigerians know this, including the APC supporters. We want to address our base. Either way the G5 goes is a win-win situation for APC because this G5 is a strong component of the PDP,” he said. “If they go to Peter Obi, win-win for APC, if they come to us, it’s a plus. Anywhere they go, except Atiku Abubakar, is a win-win for us. Even the votes they are taking to Labour Party will also not give victory to the party. “This is a young party, Peter Obi went there in the last 5 or 6 months, and they are doing well, better than expected. “It’s not that people expect them to win. No, Labour Party will not win. I can bet with anything that is precious to me on earth. I can tell you, and I am that confident. I put it down that they will not win.” The APC PCC spokersperson said the PDP has completely collapsed as a political party, noting that the “wheels are falling off one by one”. “The race before now was between APC and PDP, but as I speak to you, PDP has completely collapsed. If you look at their campaign so far, the PDP will continue to tell you that they are hoping that there will be some kind of upheaval in the north, some kind of reversal of fortune,” he said. “We can say confidently today that the PDP and its campaign as a party has collapsed. The various factors that we have now that have upset the political terrain — Peter Obi and Rabiu Kwankwaso — were the components of PDP in 2019. “The wheels of PDP are falling off one by one. The endorsement of Olusegun Obasanjo is not against APC, it’s against Atiku Abubakar because he supported him in 2019.”