The Department of State Services (DSS) says there is a plot by some unnamed politicians to smear Yusuf Bichi, its director-general, and some of its key officials. In a statement on Tuesday, Peter Afunanya, DSS spokesperson, said the politicians, as well as “disgruntled elements” within and outside the government, are waging war against “the service’s uncompromising stance on some critical governance and policy issues”. Afunanya said the politicians are using civil society and non-governmental organisations to discredit Bichi. The DSS asked the public to “be wary of these tendencies and ignore the antics of dark forces out to impugn the character of the DG”. “Also, sections of the media have been briefed to implement the strategy through sponsored articles, commentaries and features to malign the DG, his family and select officials of the service,” the statement reads. “The service is monitoring developments and will allow the plotters to either exhaust themselves or rescind the plan of action. Otherwise, no amount of intimidation, harassment and blackmail will deter it from discharging its duties. “However, it would not idly watch a group of dissatisfied gangs undermine the service and its highly dedicated leadership and management. “The DSS, therefore, wishes to inform the public to be wary of these tendencies and ignore the antics of dark forces out to impugn the character of the DG.” Afunanya said the service would continue to confront threats to national security and is working to create a conducive atmosphere for the general election. Recently, a number of CSOs raised the alarm that the secret police made an attempt to frame Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), for terrorism. Apart from these CSOs, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) had also said politicians were behind the plot to arrest Emefiele. There are suggestions that the bid to arrest the CBN governor might be political given the impact the redesign of the naira and limit on cash withdrawals might have on vote buying during the elections.