A video showing branded bags of rice purportedly with pictures of Obi Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), is circulating on social media. In the video, bags of rice with purported images of Obi alongside the logo of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were loaded into a truck, possibly for distribution as campaign materials to lure voters. Until May 2022, Obi was a member of the PDP. He was Atiku Abubakar’s running mate in the 2019 presidential election. He later resigned saying the party does not support “constructive contributions”. In a post shared by a pro-Obi account, a Twitter user accused the PDP of “fraudulently” branding Obi’s face on campaign material. “See them o, lions online but chickens offline. Peter Obi can’t win, yet you are pushing your course fraudulently. Peter Obi’s face with PDP logo on a bag of rice to be distributed. Isn’t that manipulation?,” said Mr Common Sense, a Twitter user. The video has gathered over 53k views, 286 retweets and 392 likes as of the time of this report. See them o, Lions online but chickens offline. Peter Obi can’t win, yet you are pushing your course fraudulently. Peter Obi’s face with PDP logo on a bag of rice to be distributed. Isn’t that manipulation? Aisha Fancy Kenneth Okonkwo See Nigeria Buhari The Prophet pic.twitter.com/AuAW0ArZju — Mr Common Sense (@mr_commonsense_) January 4, 2023   Another Twitter user identified as @Ikechuk07996899 posted the video with the caption: “PDP is now using @PeterObi picture to deceive voters. Their candidate @atiku is no longer sellable. This is impersonation, and @OfficialPDPNig should be sued.” PDP is now using @PeterObi picture to deceive voters. Their candidate @atiku is no longer sellable. This is impersonation, and @OfficialPDPNig should be sued. pic.twitter.com/8KIvZbKmcW — Iyke_Oti (@Ikechuk07996899) January 1, 2023  On the Twitter handle named @Ikechuk07996899, the video gathered over 13.6k views, 336 retweets and 375 likes. A picture of the viral post also appeared on a Twitter page belonging to @Adokwuandy on December 31 2022. “What is this rubbish the PDP is doing? Why are they putting peter Obi’s picture on bag of rice with Atiku and Okowa written on it. They say he don’t have structure still they are trying to manipulate the public,” he tweeted. What is this rubbish the PDP is doingWhy are they putting peter Obi's picture on bag of rice with Atiku and Okowa written on it.. They say he don't have structure still they are trying to manipulate The public.. pic.twitter.com/QkRZ4qdSrN — Future (@adokwuandy) December 31, 2022  The tweet had 487 retweets and 653 likes. TheCable subjected the claims to a fact check and this is what we found. VERIFICATION Multiple screenshots of the image were subjected to a Google reverse search where it was discovered that the image has been in circulation since December 2022. A further keyframe analysis of the footage using InVid – a video verification tool, showed that the branded bags of rice had on them the names of some PDP candidates who are contesting for various elective positions in Delta state. The picture featured Atiku, and Ifeanyi Okowa, the PDP vice-presidential candidate. Other names and images featured on the bags of rice include Hilary Ibegbulem, secretary to the Delta state governor, Sheriff Oborevwori, PDP governorship candidate in Delta state, Ned Nwoko, Delta North senatorial candidate, Victor Nwokolo, representing Ika Federal Constituency and Marilyn Okowa, a contestant for Delta state House of Assembly. Further analysis of the image on the rice bag revealed that the picture on the bag is that of Hilary Ibegbulem.  Checks by TheCable led to a post shared on Facebook on December 27, 2022, by Dantes Odogwu, Okowa’s aide.  The post shows a clearer view of the image on the 10kg rice bags, which confirms with the picture of Hilary Ibegbulem.  On January 2, Ose Anenih, a PDP presidential campaign council member, confirmed that the photo printed on the bags belonged to Okowa’s secretary. “I’m confused. The man’s name was in bold at the top of the bags even in the propaganda videos. Hilary Ibegbulem is a top Delta politician,” he tweeted. “What has this got anything to do with Obi? We really need to stop subtly giving wings to lies and propaganda.” I’m confused. The man’s name was in bold at the top of the bags even in the propaganda videos. Hilary Ibegbulem is a top Delta politician. What has  this got anything to do with Obi? We really need to stop subtly giving wings to lies and propaganda. https://t.co/ZMioshrNVy pic.twitter.com/zbLZxxYMdA — Ose Anenih (@ose_anenih) January 2, 2023  VERDICT
The picture on the branded bags of rice in the circulating video is not Obi but Ibegbulem. The video post is misleading.