The second match day of the new season of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) was filled with exciting results as the previous one. Eighteen goals were scored in a round of fixtures that produced one away win and four draws on the road. Enyimba 0-0 Akwa United In the early kick-off on Wednesday,  the Peoples Elephant were held to a goalless draw by Akwa United in Aba. Enyimba failed to breach the defence of the Promise Keepers who secured their first point of the season. Enyimba is third in Group A with four points in two games. Abia Warriors 3-1 Bayelsa United Abia Warriors defeated Bayelsa United to continue their perfect start to the campaign and above Group B with six points. Kalu Nweke put the hosts ahead in the second minute with an easy tap-in before Bello Lukman doubled the Warriors’ lead in the 65th minute with a well-executed finish off a brilliant pass from Henry Udezuka. It was Lukman’s second goal of the season. He would move from a hero to villain in the 82nd minute after scoring an own goal to half the deficit. But Udezuka secured the win for the home team in the 87th minute. Lobi Stars 1-0 Enugu Rangers Joseph Atule’s 82nd goal was the difference as Lobi Stars piped Rangers at the New Jos Stadium. Dakkada 2-1 Wikki Tourists Dakkada came from behind to claim three vital points against Tourists at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo. Ismaila Mayaki had given the away team the lead in the second minute before Kufre Ebong levelled the scoreline on the half-hour mark. Aniekan Ekpe netted the winning goal from the spot in the 66th minute. Bendel Insurance 2-1 Plateau United Bendel Insurance are having a blissful return to the Nigerian top flight and sitting first on Group A. Ismael Seriki gave the home side the lead in the 53rd minute before United equalised with a stoppage-time penalty from Mustapha Abdullahi. Imade Osehenkhoe stole the victory for Insurance with the final kick of the game. Gombe United 0-1 Remo Stars Remo Stars left it late at the Pantami Stadium before grabbing a deserved 1-0 win over Gombe United. In the 88th minute, Andy Okpe headed home from the far post after a squared cross from Adams Olamilekan. Sunshine Stars 1-1 Rivers United Rivers United, the defending champions, held on for a huge point away in Ondo. Rivers had raced ahead with a first-half goal before Ejike Uziechi equalised for the home side. Niger Tornadoes 1-0 Doma United Munir Idris’ eight-minute goal was enough to ensure Tornadoes stretch their winning streak to two games and join Warrior as leaders of Group B. El Kanemi Warriors 2-1 Nasarawa United Elkanemi defeated Nasarawa United to go fourth in Group A. Shooting Stars 0-0 Kwara United The spoils were shared at the Lekan Salami Stadium as 3SC failed to shake off the challenge of Kwara United.