A group known as the natives has asked the Department of State Services (DSS) and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) to fish out those responsible for the scarcity of premium motor spirit (PMS), also known as petrol. Petrol scarcity has worsened in parts of the country since November. The situation has also led to a surge in pump prices in filling stations across the nation. In a statement on Sunday, Smart Edwards, president-general of the group, said the scarcity is “politically motivated”. Edwards said the situation has gotten so bad that citizens “testify in churches” if they are able to fill up tanks of their vehicles. “Saboteurs (among the marketers and distributors) have deliberately, and for selfish reasons, caused the scarcity to the extent that Nigerians testify in worship centres if they eventually fill their car tanks,” he said. “This is abnormal which should not be allowed to stand. We call on the DSS and the NSCDC to go after these enemies of the state. “We strongly condemn the scare and conducts of players that are leading to a hike and queues as politically motivated, and this is sad, because the masses are at the receiving end. “The minister quoted the president as saying ‘this is not the time for any price increase in pump price of PMS.’ “The minister explained that what was playing out was the handiwork of mischief makers and those planning to discredit the achievements of the President in the oil and gas sector of the economy. “Therefore, these saboteurs should not be allowed to succeed.” Edwards also said the plan by the federal government to end the importation of petrol next year is “cheery news”. “We cannot but applaud you and the team at the NNPCL for this positive effort in the right direction,” he said. “We are tired of hearing turn around maintenance that leads to non-functional refineries, so this is surely a great job you are doing and we obviously welcome the news of 60,000bpd portion of the refinery that will go operational by the first quarter of 2023. “You have taken practical steps towards ensuring this delivery.” Last month, the DSS issued a 48-hour ultimatum to oil marketers to end the petrol scarcity, stating that the situation affects the nation’s security. Peter Afunanya, DSS spokesperson, said the secret police would commence operations across the country if the queues persist at various filling stations after the deadline.