Hope Uzodimma, governor of Imo state, says only members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and people close to his government are victims of insecurity attacks in the state. Uzodimma also alleged that politicians are behind the insecurity in the state. The Imo governor made the claims on Thursday during a programme on Channels Television. Events of the past have shown clearly that politicians are the ones behind the insecurity in Imo State. – Sen. Hope Uzodimma, Governor of Imo State.#CTVTweets pic.twitter.com/hW2Pc2vm14 — Channels Television (@channelstv) January 5, 2023  “Today, in my conversation with stakeholders in Imo state, I made it very clear that events of the past have shown clearly that those behind the insecurity in Imo state are politicians and that this insecurity is politically contrived,” Uzodimma said. “For instance, in that presentation which I did, I came out with a clear position that all the people that have been attacked in Imo state, all the houses that have been burnt down, are members of APC and those very close to my government. “If you look at it, there is no member of any other political party that has been attacked in Imo state; no member of any other opposition party that his house has been burnt down, and this has continued to happen. “You just mentioned that of the former governor Ikedi Ohakin. Three days after he summoned a special dinner of Imo stakeholders, and encouraged them to support the government of APC, two days after, he was attacked and his security details killed. “So, I have presented this matter to Imo people and of late, some arrests have been made — some of the kingpins. “So, I’ve challenged the security agents in Imo state to make public, as soon as possible, the report of that investigation, and those behind these killings in Imo state be named. “And they are going to do just that. I’m not going to pretend about that. I’m not going to play politics with the security of Imo state.” VERIFICATION In recent weeks, TheCable reported a series of attacks on properties and politicians by gunmen in Imo state. A few days ago, gunmen attacked the convoy of Ikedi Ohakim, former governor of Imo, leading to the death of four police officers. In December 2022, a magistrate court in Owerri LGA and a high court in Orlu LGA of Imo state were set ablaze by gunmen within the space of 24 hours. Also in December 2022, gunmen killed Christopher Eleghu, the candidate of the Labour Party (LP) for Onuimo constituency in the Imo state house of assembly. On December 12, gunmen attacked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) head office in Owerri, the Imo state capital. VERDICT The claim by Uzodimma that only members of the APC and people close to his government have been attacked is incorrect. Christopher Eleghu, the house of assembly candidate for the Labour Party in Onuimo constituency, was attacked and killed by gunmen in his country home in Imo.