The military pensions board (MPB) has blamed the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and disbursing banks for the delay in the payment of security debarment allowance (SDA). On January 5, TheCable reported that the board said it had begun the payment of the security debarment allowance to eligible military retirees and next of kin of deceased officers. The announcement on the payment came weeks after President Muhammadu Buhari’s approval. In a statement on Wednesday, Saburi Lawal, the MPB chairman, said the delay did not emanate from the board but from technical hitches experienced by the CBN and the disbursing banks. “It has, however, come to the notice of the board that bank accounts of some of our esteemed pensioners are yet to be credited with their entitlements, especially for those banking with the Unity Bank, Access Bank, Eco Bank, Keystone Bank and Heritage Bank,” NAN quoted Lawal as saying. “It is pertinent to clarify that the board does not cause the delay. It is as a result of some technical hitches experienced in the execution of the MPB’s mandate by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the commercial banks earlier mentioned.” Lawal, however, said the board is making efforts to resolve the issues. He also asked next of kin of eligible military personnel who died after November 9, 2017, to contact their respective banks for their entitlements. “Notwithstanding this development, the board is assuring our esteemed pensioners that the MPB is on top of the situation as efforts are being made to ensure all eligible pensioners get paid as soon as possible,” the statement reads. “Furthermore, the Board is using this medium to request all members of veteran associations to please inform NOKs of deceased pensioners that payment of SDA to eligible deceased military pensioners will commence on Thursday, Jan. 19. “Others are means of identification of the NOK such as National Identity Card, International Passport or Driver’s License, passport photograph of the NOK and Letter from the bank confirming account details of the NOK. “In the same vein, all non-pensionable military retirees who retired prior to Nov. 9, 2017, and alive are also to apply to the Chairman MPB for payment of their SDA entitlements. “Their applications are to be accompanied with the following documents: Copy of Discharge Certificate/Retirement Letter, Copy of Discharge/Retirement ID Card, current passport photograph and letter from the bank confirming account details of the Retiree.”