The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) says “systemic corruption” is undermining the education, water, and health sectors in Nigeria. The organisation stated this on Wednesday at a media briefing in Lagos. The group spoke on ‘Failed Promises: Corruption in the Water, Health and Education Sectors in Nigeria”. SERAP said the three sectors have become “almost non-existent” due to lack of transparency and accountability. It added that the widespread corruption in the sectors and other aspects of government is an indication of President Muhammadu Buhari’s failure to tackle the menace as promised. “President Buhari’s government has made little to no progress in fulfilling the promises made to Nigerians to fight grand corruption, end impunity of perpetrators, respect the rule of law, and ensure access of socially and economically vulnerable Nigerians to basic public goods and services, such as quality education healthcare, and regular and uninterrupted water supply,” it said. “In spite of the growing deficit in our national budget and increasing national debt profile, access to basic public goods and services such as quality education, affordable healthcare and regular and uninterrupted water supply has become almost non-existent due primarily to systemic and widespread corruption in these sectors. “Yet, unresolved allegations of corruption in public institutions like the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) and State Universal Basic Education Boards (SUBEBs) continue to undermine public confidence in the education sector, lead to the erosion of access to education, and if not urgently addressed, will lead to an
increase in out-of-school children, and exacerbate educational inequalities in the country. “Investigating the allegations of corruption and mismanagement of Nigeria’s resources, prosecuting suspected perpetrators, and recovering any missing public funds would contribute to addressing the systemic and widespread corruption, which has disproportionately affected the most vulnerable and marginalised, and entrenched inequality.” The organisation said Buhari and relevant security agencies must “thoroughly investigate cases of corruption in the water, health, and education sectors as well documented in the 2018 and 2019 auditor general’s reports”. Speaking at the event, Oluwadare Kolawole, deputy director of SERAP, said the briefing “is not an outcome of any research but a recap of our advocacy initiatives in 2022”.