Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says the forthcoming elections in the state will be a “fight to the finish”. Wike spoke on Monday at the local government campaign flag-off rally of the PDP in the state, held at the Felix Obuah pavilion in Omoku town, Ogba-Egbema-Ndoni LGA. He said the elections will be a crucial moment that the electorate will use to decide against those who hate Rivers. Wike said the PDP has always won elections in the state, adding that the forthcoming elections will not be different. He alleged that when some LGAs in Rivers experienced flooding in 2022, the state was abandoned to its fate. “That is how you know those who hate Rivers state; that is how you know those who love us. If you hate Rivers state, we will not give you our vote. We will only give our vote to those who love Rivers state,” Wike said. “You have to listen to your leaders through the DG of the campaign. They will come back to you, sit you down, and tell you where we are heading. “It is a fight to the finish. Do not be afraid. We are going to win at the end of the day. You know that we have always won. We will continue to win. “We have never failed in anything we have told you. Success has always been with us. God has been with us. This time is not going to be different. God will continue to lead us.” Wike asked the people of the state not to listen to candidates and leaders of other political parties who may come to solicit their votes. He alleged that such persons failed the electorate when they had the opportunity to fulfill the promises they made. “Do you allow those who were previously given the opportunity? They failed you. Is there anything they can tell you again?” he asked. He urged the people to repeat the level of support that they showed the PDP in the 2015 and 2019 elections, so as to consolidate what his administration has already accomplished. In his speech, Siminialayi Fubara, the PDP governorship candidate, said his team will consolidate on the achievements of Wike. Fubara assured the people that they will experience sustained peace, economic empowerment, and enhanced business opportunities. “What we stand for is good governance. Good governance is providing services. Good governance is making life easy, and that is what my principal has done for you and that is where I stand with you,” Fubara said. “Let me also add, after our road for accessibility, Omoku will be a gas hub. You know what it means for your city to be a gas hub. Businesses will come; investment come; employment problem will be over.”