The announcement that “Jagaban army rice” is now available for distribution in Katsina state has sparked outrage on Twitter. Dayo Israel, national youth leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) made the announcement in a tweet on Wednesday. President Muhammadu Buhari hails from Katsina, one of the states in the north-west geopolitical zone experiencing insecurity. In the tweet, Israel said more states would soon take delivery of the rice soon, noting that they were working “tirelessly” to ensure that. “Jagaban Army rice now available in Katsina for distribution this saturday during the Deliver your street day,” he wrote on Twitter. “Should get to more states soon. Our youth leaders in the grassroot and our youth stakeholders are working tirelessly to mobilise, led by the Wing Commander.” Jagaban Army rice now available in Katsina for distribution this saturday during the Deliver your street day. Should get to more states soon. Our youth leaders in the grassroot and our youth stakeholders are working tirelessly to mobilise, led by the Wing Commander. pic.twitter.com/VwzeN29hhb — The Dayo Israel™ (@dayoisrael) January 18, 2023  But Nigerians who commented on the post expressed their displeasure. The youth leader had initially announced that the APC youth presidential campaign council had plans of distributing packs of rice across the country. It is usual for politicians to share commodities during elections to woo the electorate to vote for them. Here are some comments on the post. Politicians deliberately plan hunger in town, so they'll be able to manipulate the hungry people — Communicator (@usman__haruna) January 19, 2023  pic.twitter.com/l7FsCWLGbJ — Alex Agbo (@AlexAgbo23) January 19, 2023  APC National Youth Leader, publicly posting this shows that the old force have influenced their younger generations with methods of keeping masses poorer and telling them to sell their votes. This is the rice that will give you good road. APC is a wicked party. Vote them out — Odérìndé Adékúnlé (@AdekunleOderind) January 19, 2023  Shame have shrink from you existence completely. — TIMER (@citizengabu) January 18, 2023  Winnie di Pooh and stomach infrastructure — Chinazom  (@0xtova) January 18, 2023  this rice can’t even carry someone for two days  Apc plisss — cruel lenny will (@iwilsonnonny) January 19, 2023  The old generation shared rice secretly in the night. This generation posts the act online  to fully document it for generations unborn to know how they bribed the desperately poor in exchange for power. Zero shame for using hunger against  the electorate. — M (@MuyiwaSaka) January 18, 2023  Sir, you’re very terrible and you know it, you know what you’re doing with this pinch of rice you’re giving to the feeble in this desperate times and you’re even proud. God is merciful oo oh my God — Oluwatunmise (@Tumisebaby) January 19, 2023  Ahh. Nigerian politicians steadily lowering the bar. They've switched off the light at the end if the tunnel. — Hammid (@aholagunju) January 18, 2023  God — Gerrardo30BG (@IconGerrard) January 19, 2023  “The APC Masterplan” 1. Make the economy hard for the common man.2. Make the people poor.3. During elections, share 1kg of rice with Tinubu’s face.4. Buy their votes.5. Make things harder for another 8 years. The cycle continues… Break this chain with your PVC!!!! https://t.co/Wa5Demcsfa — SportsDokita (Odogwu ) (@Sports_Doctor2) January 19, 2023 