A group under the aegis of Greater Nigeria Professionals (GNP) says Mele Kyari, group chief executive officer (GCEO) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, works around the clock to ensure adequate supply of petrol across the country. In a statement signed by Ahmed Tahir, GNP chairperson, the group said the ongoing petrol scarcity is not enough to judge Kyari’s contributions to the oil sector. ‘‘Because of a poor understanding of what is going on; or for sheer mischief, Nigerians look for and find a scapegoat in the NNPC Ltd and its leadership under Mele Kyari, if only they know the dynamics that combine to produce these fuel queues, they will be saluting Mr Kyari and the NNPC under his leadership, instead of maligning him,” the group said. “Kyari works 24/7 to make sure that despite daunting challenges, PMS, or petrol, is available in Nigeria daily.” The group also commended Kyari for being honoured with the ‘The Sun Man of The Year Award 2022’ for the second consecutive time. While describing the conferment of the award on Kyari as “well-deserved”, GNP said the award will encourage public office holders and leaders that outstanding performance would be rewarded. “Kyari was recognised with this particular award, to the admiration of Nigerians and many other stakeholders. His unrelenting efforts at making an indelible mark in national development has continued to encourage the Borno-born oil czar to keep pushing for a better Nigeria,” GNP said. ‘‘Within three years of his stewardship as GMD NNPC, Kyari led the transformation of NNPC’s performance, from a loss-making company to a profitable one in the year 2020 when, for the first time in its 44 years of history, NNPC declared a profit after tax of N287bn. This was scaled up to 674bn profit after tax in 2021. ‘‘Mele has successfully renegotiated the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) Gas Pipeline contract. He played an important role in facilitating the passage of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) 2021.” Meanwhile, the group’s comment comes amid criticism over a hike in the price of petrol and long queues at filling stations.