The All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council in the south-west has asked governors elected on the platform of the party to declare Tuesday as work-free to enable residents to collect their permanent voters’ cards (PVCs). The council said this in a communique signed by Rotimi Akeredolu, coordinator of the campaign council and Ondo governor, and Isaac Kekemeke, deputy coordinator. The council said it agreed at the end of its meeting on the need for south-west to vote massively for Bola Tinubu, candidate of the party– hence, the need for PVC collection. It asked the national working committee (NWC) of the party to look into allegations of some leaders engaging in anti-party activities. “Council praises its chairman, governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu SAN, CON for his leadership and candour. It notes with satisfaction his improved state of health and prayed for his speedy recovery and continued service to Ondo state and Nigeria as a nation,” the communique reads. “Council decries the low rate of collection of PVC and announces the immediate launch of ‘Operation collect Your PVC’ across all the states in the south-west. “In furtherance to the foregoing, the council enjoins governors of all APC-controlled states to declare Tuesday, January 24, 2023, as a work-free day to aid the collection of PVC. “Council directs the setting up of polling units mobilization committees across all the south-west states and also decides that all party leaders and government functionaries at the federal and state levels should return immediately to their respective local governments, wards, and units to lead the campaigns and voter mobilization activities. “Council urges governors of APC-controlled states in the Southwest to deploy all state-owned mass media machineries towards mobilisation, voter education, and PVC collection. “Council appeals to PCC to urgently release funds to all campaign directorates, most especially, the youth directorate in order to enhance the campaign and mobilisation activities.”