Tukur Buratai, former chief of army staff, says security agencies will provide maximum security for voters in the forthcoming elections in the country. Buratai said this in an interview published by BBC Hausa on Wednesday. The former chief of army staff said he is confident that security forces will ensure a peaceful conduct of elections in the country. He said threats by IPOB and ISWAP/Boko Haram will not prevent elections from holding in the country as the police and army have assured Nigerians of their readiness. “The issue of security in Nigeria especially during the election period, I’m certain that the security agencies will make sure elections hold nationwide and we have the assurances especially from the Police, DSS and the Army where the COAS Lt Gen F Yahaya had assured Nigerians on the readiness of the army to provide security,” Buratai said. “In the south-east, there’s IPOB. Even though they carry out attacks, most of their threats are empty and just to insert fear in people and I’m certain the security forces won’t allow them especially when it comes to the election period. “If you also look at other places like the north-west and north-central, they also have security challenges. “But I believe the security agencies when it’s time for elections will provide maximum security for the safety of the electorates to be able to come out and vote peacefully. “In an investigation that we received recently, shootings and attacks have reduced by 48%. In fact, Nigeria is now out of the list of nations with high level of security challenges and terrorism. So if you look at it, ISWAP/Boko Haram are being defeated. “ISWAP and Boko Haram, I see the two as the same terrorist organisation; their strength has been drastically reduced.” Buratai’s comment comes hours after a militant group, which identified itself as ‘The Force of Egbesu’, threatened to disrupt elections in Bayelsa state. Also in recent weeks, there has been a series of attacks on facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) across the country. The commission’s offices in Osun, Ogun, Ebonyi and other Imo LGA’s have been set ablaze by gunmen. Meanwhile on January 14, gunmen attacked a permanent voter card (PVC) collection centre in Ahiazu Mbaise LGA of Imo state, and killed a police officer.