President Muhammadu Buhari says he hopes he will be remembered positively for his achievements while in office. He said this on Thursday in Katsina while inaugurating some projects of the state government, as well as the federal ministry of aviation’s meteorological institute. The president is on a two-day visit to the state. Projects inaugurated on Thursday included the Kofar Kaura underpass, Kofar Kwaya underpass, Kofar Kaura waterworks, Katsina state internal revenue house, Muhammadu Buhari Meteorological Institute, Darma rice mill and the upgraded Katsina State General Hospital. “I have done my best, and I hope history will be kind to me,” a statement by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, quoted him as saying. Buhari also spoke on the need for ensuring good economic relations with neighbouring countries, adding that the Kano-Katsina-Maradi rail line was designed for that purpose. “If you want to enjoy peace and harmony, you must be very friendly with your neighbour. That is why when I came into office, I started by visiting all our neighbours,” he said. Speaking further at a lunch event, he commended the Katsina state government for its developmental efforts. “Governance or leadership, as I have emphasised on many occasions, is an enormous responsibility embodying trust and requiring sacrifice so that the community of people that entrusted a leader with that burden can, in both short and long terms, stand to benefit from the uprightness of the leadership,” he said. “In November, 2022, I received a letter from the Governor of Katsina State, inviting me to pay a State Visit to commission projects executed by his administration. I was confident in giving my consent to the request. “Firstly, I noticed that the Governor’s letter had already earmarked many projects that are beyond commissioning for a State Visit spanning only two days, and secondly, I was impressed by the transparency implied by the manner that each of the projects was associated with its cost of execution. “I am under the impression that the Governor is using this occasion to announce his silent achievements, many of which were unknown till today. “Earlier today, it was my pleasure to commission Kofar Kaura Underpass, Kofar Kaura Waterworks, Revenue House, Meteorological Institute, Darma Rice Mills, as well as upgraded Katsina General Hospital. “I am happy with the infrastructural development efforts in Katsina State, particularly when one compares the recorded achievements with the position of the state as a rural state with a short history of a little over three decades of existence. “Tomorrow, I look forward to commissioning the Dayi Dangulle Road, Musawa General Hospital, Sandamu-Baure-Babban Mutum Road, and Gurjiya-Karkarku Road. “Indeed, infrastructure is the substructure upon which societal growth and development are predicated. It is the realisation of this that the federal government makes infrastructural presence an irrevocable reality, thus enticing foreign investors and motivating the local elements. “While all the achievements recorded in Katsina State under the leadership of the Executive Governor are important, the education sector has really emboldened my belief that our society is in a stead to enjoy transformation in near future, because when education permeates the life of members of society then the propensity to experience growth and development is very high.”