The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has explained why Dibu Ojerinde, a former registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), was re-arrested. Ojerinde was arrested in Abuja on Thursday, at the premises of a federal high court. BACKGROUND The ICPC had arraigned Ojerinde on July 6, 2021, on an 18-count charge bordering on alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of N5.2 billion while in office. In a statement on Thursday, Azuka Ogugua, ICPC spokesperson, said Ojerinde is expected to face a team of investigators over new evidence uncovered in relation to his ongoing trial over alleged diversion of funds. ‘OJERINDE MAY FACE FRESH CHARGES’ Jimoh Olabisi, a former deputy director at JAMB, had, at a court hearing on Wednesday, alleged that Ojerinde used him to divert federal government funds. The ICPC, on Thursday, said its operatives uncovered two accounts opened in the names of Trillium Learning Centre Ltd and Sapati International Schools Ltd, into which funds were diverted using fictitious names of students. “The commission had on the 12th December, 2022, invited the former JAMB Registrar for questioning over the new evidence but he wrote through his solicitor requesting 14 days grace to enable him honour the invitation,” ICPC said. “Ojerinde, however, refused to honour the invitation as undertaken by his counsel after the expiration of the 14 days grace on 27th December, 2022. “In the course of its ongoing investigation, the Commission unearthed new evidence that suggests that Ojerinde is the sole signatory to various bank accounts operated in the name of Trillium Learning Centre Ltd and Sapati International School Ltd. “Ojerinde reportedly operated those accounts using false identities and forged documents in the names of Joshua Olakulehin Olaniran and Akanbi Lamidi, respectively. He also reportedly used another false identity, Adeniyi Banji, to operate a separate account in the name of Standout Institutes Ltd.” The ICPC said it has recovered the chequebooks of the companies’ accounts from Ojerinde. “The Commission may likely prosecute the former registrar before a court of competent jurisdiction for offences bothering on forgery of documents, stolen identity, money laundering and concealment of gratification if the new evidence is confirmed,” the agency added.