Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s efforts at “defeating insurgency in parts of the country”. Speaking on Sunday to mark the Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration at the Government House in Port Harcourt, River’s capital, Wike described Buhari’s efforts as extraordinary. He said the armed forces have been at the forefront of eliminating Boko Haram and other armed insurgents in the north-west and north-east, including the “unknown gunmen” in the south-east of the country. Wike said Buhari’s efforts at coordinating a successful military intervention would be a legacy for sustaining free and fair elections. “I commend our President, General Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, for his sustained efforts at defeating the Boko Haram insurgents and bandits terrorizing and destroying our communities in parts of our country,” he said. “The restoration of peace to our troubled geo-political regions, and the conduct of the free and fair general election are the best legacies you can live for our country. “As leaders, our goal must be one Nigeria, one destiny, and the challenges of building a more fair, inclusive, and just society are not beyond us. “Therefore, I will not relent in my prayers to God to enable Mr President and other leaders of our country to succeed in our mission and commitments to our country.” The Rivers governor called for a prioritisation of the welfare of the armed forces in and out of service alongside their families, adding that they should be given attention from the public purse. He donated N100 million as part of the state’s efforts to empower veteran servicemen. “As a state government, we have, over the years, provided financial support to our veterans through the state office of the Nigerian Legion,” he said. “We have since redeemed the N50 million pledge we made during the remembrance emblem appeal fund launch in December 2022. “Today, I wish to donate the sum of N100 million on behalf of the state government for the economic empowerment of the veteran servicemen from Rivers state.”