Gunmen have killed five persons in suspected cult-related attacks in Idemili North and Awka South LGAs of Anambra state. The incident occurred on Monday after rival cult groups clashed in Okpuno, Ifite and Obosi communities in the state. Christian Aburime, chief press secretary to the governor, said one Ike Okolo, president-general of Obosi, was killed by gunmen at a fuel station in the community. Aburime said four others were murdered in Obi Maduka’s compound within Nodu town Square in Nodu Okpuno. Chukwuma Soludo, governor of the state, condemned the cult war and killings of residents, adding that the perpetrators will be tracked down and brought to justice. “The attention of Anambra state government has been drawn to killings within the state as a consequence of cult-related war among rival cult groups in Okpuno, Ifite and Obosi communities,” the statement reads. “The state governor, professor Chukwuma Charles Soludo, CFR has condemned the cult-related war among rival groups and subsequent killings in Obosi and Okpuno in Idemili North and Awka South council areas respectively. “In Obosi, the president general of the community, Hon. Ike Okolo was reportedly shot dead in a petrol station on Monday, 2nd January, 2023, by gunmen, while in Obi Maduka’s compound within Nodu town square, Nodu Okpuno, gunmen killed four people identified as Onyiebo Okoye, Kenechukwu Okeke, Jude Ebenezar and Obinna Maduka. “Governor Soludo condemns these mindless killings in the strongest terms and has assured that the perpetrators will be apprehended and decisively dealt with, even if they have ran out of town. He stressed that they will be hunted down to face the full wrath of the law. “This festive season, Anambra has enjoyed the best Christmas ever in decades as it was traffic-free with a new system of traffic control put in place by the government during the festive season with Anambra youth volunteers and the state traffic management agency working 24 hours at all the critical points to control traffic. “Today, Monday, 2nd of January that used to be observed as sit at home, witnessed massive outdoor activities, as the state bubbled with activities all over.” He urged the people of the state to carry on with their normal activities and enjoy the season.