The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has responded to the demand by the All Progressives Congress (APC) seeking the arrest of Atiku Abubakar, PDP presidential candidate. Earlier on Monday, the APC presidential campaign council asked law enforcement agencies to arrest and prosecute Abubakar. The APC campaign premised its request on an audio recording released by Michael Achimugu, a former aide to Abubakar. In the audio, the former vice-president is alleged to have explained how shell organisations were set up to divert public funds. TheCable has not confirmed the authenticity of the recording in question. Reacting in a statement on Monday, Debo Ologunagba, PDP spokesperson, described the APC’s demand as a “simulated allegation”. “PDP dismisses as irresponsible the attempt by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its incoherent Presidential Candidate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to divert public attention from the issues affecting Nigerians, Tinubu’s atrocious record and the vexatious misrule of the APC by demanding that the PDP Presidential Candidate, His Excellency Atiku Abubakar should withdraw from the Presidential race on account of simulated allegations by the APC,” the statement reads. “It is indeed ironic that an embattled Tinubu, who is beleaguered by uncountable cases of fraudulent activities, including perjury, forgery, treasury looting, corruption and narcotic-related conviction can attempt to impugn on the unimpeachable integrity of the PDP Presidential Candidate. “For clarity and for the interest of Nigerians, it is on record that Atiku Abubakar is one of the most investigated public officials in this country. It is also on record that in all the investigations undertaken over him and his affairs, Atiku Abubakar was never found culpable in any of the allegations. “In contrast, however, the APC Presidential Candidate has a litany of confirmed legal impediments on very grave issues including those that boarders on international crime, namely; trafficking in narcotic and taking proceeds of narcotic.” The opposition party said Tinubu should “withdraw from the presidential race having been found ineligible and not qualified to run or to contest for the office of the president of Nigeria under the provisions of the Nigerian constitution”.