Ford Foundation in collaboration with Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER) and other civil society groups has established a centre for people with disabilities (PWDS) in Lagos state. JODER announced the development in a statement signed by Adewale Adeoye and Akin Kasali on Friday. The centre, located in Surulere, is expected to provide capacity building for children with disabilities. The centre will provide training, learning aids and vocational education for children with disabilities in order to develop and harness their potential. Fifty pupils are expected to be enlisted in the school for an initial 12-month programme. JODER said ahead of Nigeria’s elections, “the faint voices lend to issues of disability is a strong indication of how political and economic powers pay little attention to a major national issue of human exclusion”. The media group said the development diminishes the potential of children with disabilities and limits their contributions to society. JODER said the centre is part of efforts to raise awareness of the challenges facing those with disabilities in Lagos. “The focus is on those with sensory disability such as visual, hearing impairment and speech challenges. The centre adopts a social and human rights-based approach to disability which recognizes disability as caused by unaccommodating social environments, institutions and attitudes,” the statement reads. “One of the major challenge is lack of effective media coverage on the plight of the physically challenged, societal neglect, exclusion from social and economic framework, lack of capacity building, discrimination and lack of access to opportunities or outright denial where and when such opportunities arise. “It is a community service centre that provides disability-specific learning support for abandoned children with disabilities. The centre provides housing support, learning and vocational training for children and young people between the ages of 5-20 years. “Some of the programs at the centre are Orientation & Mobility for the Blind, Daily living skills, Braille (reading and writing), Sign Language and continuous guidance and counseling.”