Abiola Bawuah has been appointed as the new chief executive officer (CEO) of the United Bank for Africa Plc. Bawuah, a Ghanaian national, is the first female CEO of UBA Africa. The bank, in a statement on Monday said Bawuah would also join the group board as an executive director, overseeing its operations across the African continent. Bawuah’s appointment, According to UBA, further demonstrates the bank’s commitment to diversity as the group board now includes eight female directors. Prior to the appointment, Bawuah held the role of the CEO, UBA Ghana. She was also the regional CEO, West Africa, supervising the group’s operations in nine subsidiaries, including Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Senegal, and Sierra Leone. Speaking on the new appointment, Tony Elumelu, group board chairman said Bawuah has made significant contributions to the company’s growth. “Abiola has contributed significantly to the growth of UBA Africa for close to a decade. She brings a wealth of experience in commercial banking and stakeholder engagement,” the entrepreneur said. “It also gives me great pleasure that with her appointment, the UBA group board has now become a majority female board.” Meanwhile, UBA also announced Chris Ofikulu as the regional CEO, UBA West Africa. The bank said Ofikulu has over two decades of banking experience spanning corporate, commercial, and retail banking. Also, Theresa Henshaw, who was previously the deputy managing director (DMD), business development, UBA America, was appointed as the CEO, UBA UK, subject to local regulatory approvals. Other appointments include Uzoechina Molokwu, who will take on the role as DMD, UBA Ghana, subject to local regulatory approvals; while Ayokunle Olajubu will be the managing director and CEO, UBA Liberia, also subject to local regulatory approvals. “Usman Isiaka, currently CEO, UBA Sierra Leone, will be the deputy CEO of UBA America, subject to local regulatory approvals,” the bank added. “Adeyemi Adeleke, the former CEO of UBA, UK is now the group treasurer. Adeleke will be working to unlock the immense value in the group’s multi-jurisdictional balance sheet, leveraging its presence in 24 countries within and beyond Africa.” In addition to the executive appointments, UBA  announced the retirement of Samuel Oni, an independent non-executive director, from the board following the expiration of his tenure. Oni joined UBA group in January 2015 and served on the board of the group for eight years.