A suspect linked to the 2018 robbery in Offa has reportedly told a Kwara state high court that Abba Kyari, suspended deputy commissioner of police (DCP), offered him N10 million to implicate Bukola Saraki. The suspect said this on Wednesday at the resumption of court sitting in Ilorin, the Kwara capital. The robbery, which took place on April 5, 2018, resulted in 33 fatalities — including pregnant women and 12 police officers. Those standing trial are Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibikunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Salahudeen Azeez and Niyi Ogundiran. On Wednesday, Akinnibosun told the court that Kyari, while he was head of the police intelligence response team (IRT), offered him the money to say that Saraki, former senate president, was the brains behind the robbery. Akinnibosun also said he was offered a visa to any country of his choice, but said he refused the offer. “He said I should admit and say Saraki was the one who asked us to go and rob. I told him I won’t do that; that I will rather die for what I didn’t do than to lie against an innocent man,” the suspect was quoted as saying. “He asked me to think over his offer very well. At this point, he ordered officers, Hassan and Moshood, to return me to the cell — a separate one different from where others are — and they should stop torturing me.” The suspect — one of five persons arrested over the robbery — also told the court that they were taken to Abuja and kept in a place known as “abattoir”. “We were like 15 to 20 taken to Abuja, I only know a few of them. We were put outside and served meals, but I couldn’t eat because my hands were paralysed due to the torture I went through in their hands in Ilorin. They asked Kunle Ogunleye to feed me,” he said. “They separated five of us, put us in the generator house and Officer Hassan Attila ordered they bring some men. They went to bring five Fulani men. They brought them and killed them all in my presence. “I was told that was not a film. He asked me to stretch my legs and shot my right leg. He shot the second leg.” Akinninbosun showed the site of his injury to the court, adding that one person was shot dead in his presence. He added that the incident made him agree to the claim about Saraki. Alimat Salman, the presiding judge, thereafter, adjourned the matter till February 13, 2023. Meanwhile, Kyari, now suspended from the force, is currently facing charges over alleged drug trafficking.