Several vigilante personnel in Galadima Kogo, Shiroro LGA of Niger state, have been killed following multiple explosions in the area. Speaking on the incident on Tuesday, Kabir Mohammed, a traditional title holder in Erena, said the explosions were caused by airstrikes. Mohammed said other vigilantes who were not affected had vacated the area. “The entire Erena town is in mourning. There was an airstrike today that killed many. There were about 30 vigilantes that lost their lives today in Galadima Kogo,” he said. “The vigilante men that were stationed in the area, in fact, as I speak with you, the rest of the vigilantes who survived the airstrike have left the village. “Currently, virtually all the residents of Galadima Kogo have packed their belongings due to fear. The village is currently deserted. “The village is very close to Erena town. There is just one road to follow into Erena and Galadima Kogo. After the tragic incident occurred, students from various schools were asked to return home. It was a great tragedy.” Salis Sabo, spokesperson of the Coalition of Shiroro Associations (COSA), said the incident occurred around 12:30pm. He, however, said 12 bodies were recovered at the time, adding that the vigilantes, who were stationed in Galadima Kogo, were at the location to ambush some bandits sighted around the area. “Yes, the incident took place at about 12:30. As usual, there was a report that bandits were sighted around that region. You know, many residents of Galadima Kogo village that earlier vacated the village had returned because of the presence of the vigilante men stationed in the village,” he told TheCable. “So, when the vigilantes heard bandits were sighted there, they went to the location to ambush the bandits. Unfortunately for them, there was a jet believed to belong to the air force that struck many of them dead. “So far, 12 bodies of the vigilantes have been recovered.” When contacted, Umar Emmanuel, Niger commissioner for internal security and humanitarian affairs, said he would revert with more information on the matter. Wapkerem Maigida, spokesperson of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), was not available to comment on the incident when contacted.