Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano, has inaugurated a committee tasked with planning a national conference which will proffer solutions to farmer-herder clashes. The destruction of farmlands have often led to clashes between farmers and herders across the country. Speaking on Thursday in Abuja during the inauguration of the committee, Ganduje said the national livestock transformation plan (NLTP) proposed by the federal government to tackle the problem has not yielded results because of “inadequate political leadership”. The 26-member committee is chaired by Attahiru Jega, a former chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “It is gladdening, therefore, to say that since assumption of office in 2015, we in Kano have led the way and have been pioneering the initiation of development-oriented interventions at reformation of the livestock sector to mitigate farmer-herder conflicts by tackling the issue headlong,” he said. “Your selection to serve as members of this committee is solely based on your experiences and contributions to national development in your respective fields. “It is our hope that you will work towards planning and organising a befitting national conference on farmer-herder conflicts in Nigeria and to select an appropriate theme for the conference. “You are also to nominate/select chairman, paper presenters/speakers, panelists, special guest(s) of honour, guests of honour, other dignitaries and delegates for the conference, as well as appropriate date and venue for the event. “The committee is to also provide adequate publicity before, during and after the event; submit a report on the conference with observations and recommendations for appropriate action; examine the ECOWAS protocol pertaining to the movement of cattle across member countries of the sub-region. “The organising committee is also to draft a blueprint for reform of traditional livestock/cattle rearing and mitigation of associated conflicts in Nigeria, and to undertake any other activities towards the successful planning and organising of the conference in accordance with the terms of reference as specified.” Below is the list of the members of the committee; 