Adetokunbo Kayode, former attorney-general of the federation (AGF), and five other senior advocates of Nigeria (SAN) have asked Abubakar Malami to prevent the Department of State Services (DSS) from arresting Godwin Emefiele. The other SANs, who wrote under the aegis of Incorporated Trustees of Forum for Accountability and Good Leadership, included Oba Maduabuchi, Emeka Ozoani, M.M Nurudeen, Abdul Mohammed, and Emeka Obegolu. Following the announcement of the new cash withdrawal policy, there have been speculations over a plot to frame Emefiele, the CBN governor. The DSS had recently filed an application before the federal high court sitting in Abuja, seeking a warrant to arrest Emefiele over allegations that he was involved in terrorism financing and economic crimes. In declining the ex parte motion — usually filed by an applicant in the absence of the respondent — John Tsoho, the chief judge, said the secret police did not provide any concrete evidence to substantiate its claims. Also, a federal capital territory (FCT) high court sitting in Maitama issued an order restraining the  DSS from arresting the CBN governor. In the letter dated January 6, the senior advocates urged Malami, the current AGF, to ensure the DSS abides by the court orders. “In spite of these two categorical judicial decisions, we observe moves to still proceed and sidetrack and disobey the court decisions and unduly and unlawfully interfere with Mr. Emefiele’s fundamental rights,” the lawyers said. “In the circumstance, we wish to urge the Hon attorney-general of the federation to use his good offices to guarantee and ensure that the government, especially the security agencies, observe the rule of law as a foundation of a democratic society by complying with court decisions. “The court, as the last hope of the citizen, has made a pronouncement on the legal rights and obligations of citizen Godwin Emefiele. It behoves on all agencies of government to obey the order of the court until such order is set aside by an appellate court. “The constitutional role of the judiciary as the third arm of government includes to serve as a bulwark against oppression and intimidation. The judiciary remains available to both the government and the citizens in the ventilation of perceived grievances. “Consequently, we respectfully urge the Hon. attorney-general, as chief law officer of the federation, to ensure adherence to the rule of law and advise the security agencies, especially the Department of State Security (DSS) to comply with the order of the court and not do anything that will cast this government in a very negative light In this circumstance. “This is very important as it will signal to Nigerians and the international community that the government is committed to the rule of law as we proceed into this transition era.”