Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers state, says the G5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will soon foreclose the possibility of reconciliation. Since the presidential primary of the PDP, there has been a crisis in the party over calls for Iyorchia Ayu to step down as national chairman of the party. The calls, championed by Wike and his allies, are based on the grounds that the PDP presidential candidate and national chairman cannot be from the same region. In an interview with the BBC on Friday, the Rivers governor said there will be no coming back once the G5 governors take a decision on their choice of a presidential candidate. “The point I am trying to tell you is that PDP should have their opportunity because there will come a time the door will be shut and nothing will happen. If that day comes, if heaven wants to come down, let it come down,” he said. “Nobody should threaten anyone. If we (G5) take the decision today that we will not support the PDP candidate, we will give reasons why we will not support him and nothing anybody will do about it. They should better be careful.” In December 2022, Wike said he will start campaigning for his preferred presidential candidate in January, but when asked about it during the interview, he said strategies are being put in place. “Why are you in a hurry? I didn’t mention the particular date in January. People should calm down. We are all politicians; we have political strategies. I don’t work as an individual. That’s what people don’t understand,” he said. “There are different strategies in going to war. What you see today is not what you see tomorrow. I laugh at them (PDP) when they say we are in touch with so, so governor.” Wike also reiterated his stance that the G5 governors won’t leave the PDP to any other party. “We are not like them. We can’t leave our house for armed robbers, we won’t do that. This is a house we built. We cannot leave it, for who? No way,” he said. “We will stay inside this house and fight. And we know that they have no choice but to allow peace to reign. They must bring the peace.”