The Lekki Estate Residents and Stakeholders Association (LERSA), says its previous statement calling for the implementation of the demands of the #EndSARS protesters was misrepresented. In a statement on January 5, the association called on Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the governor of Lagos, to intervene as the chief security officer in the implementation of previous recommendations provided to stem the tide of extra-judicial killings. “One of the recommendations after the ENDSARS protest was the need to do psychological/psychiatric evaluation of police officers, most especially those handling firearms to ensure that they are mentally capable of discharging their statutory duties effectively,” the statement had read. “Another recurring recommendation is the need to ensure that on-duty police officers are not allowed to consume, much less abuse alcoholic beverages and/or other prescribed drugs/substances. “There have also been suggestions that electronic surveillance equipment like close circuit camera, dashboard camera and indeed body-worn camera be deployed to keep the personnel of the Nigeria Police under constant monitoring and by so doing, eliminate the seemingly intractable problems of extra-judicial killings.” STATEMENT NOT INTENDED TO BRING DISREPUTE TO SANWO-OLU In another statement on Saturday, the association said reports by the media gave an “incorrect slant” to its intention. LERSA said the statement did not intend to bring Sanwo-Olu to disrepute, adding that though the governor is the chief security officer of the state, he is constrained by the constitution in matters relating to security. In the letter signed by Gbemi Adelekan, its secretary-general, and Olorogun Emadoye, its president, LERSA said the statement was purposefully written to “encourage safe policing” and not to pontificate on the issue of #EndSars. “Some of the newspaper headlines may have misrepresented the letter with the ENDSARS headlines. Though Mr governor is deemed the chief security officer of the state, he does not have the constitutional powers to implement most of our recommendations that could have prevented the fatal shootings by the two police officers from the Ajiwe Police Division; of our resident Mrs Omobolanle Raheem on Christmas day at Ajah, and another resident Mr Gafaru Buraimoh, on 6th December 2022, in the Sangotedo area of Lekki,” the association said. “The substance of our letter is directed at the Inspector general of police and the police service commission, who are the custodians of the statutory institutions responsible for the management and control of the Nigeria police force. “The spirit of the correspondence is not on EndSars protest but recommendations that will encourage safe policing of all Nigerians. Our recommendations were broad-based and contained other important suggestions ranging from innovations around policing equipment to processes.” #ENDSARS DEMANDS In October 2020, protesters, under the #EndSARS movement took to streets across the country to demand an end to police brutality. The protests resulted in the disbandment of the special anti-robbery squad (SARS) of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). The protesters also made five demands: the immediate release of all arrested protesters; justice for all deceased victims of police brutality; setting up of an independent body to investigate police misconduct; psychological evaluation of SARS operatives before redeployment; and salary increase for police officers.