Rabiu Kwankwaso, the presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), says he will prioritise education and creation of job opportunities if elected. Kwankwaso said this on Saturday at the north-west zonal flag-off of the party’s presidential campaign, held in Kaduna. He said his blueprint is the best for Nigeria, adding that his administration will ensure that children of the underprivileged have eased access to quality education. “Our blueprint is the best for Nigeria. There is no time to enumerate everything because it is a 122-page document,” he said. “But there are some critical areas, especially the area of education where we have decided that we will cancel payments for any form, either for WAEC or NECO or JAMB or application to any institution in this country. “The idea is to allow the sons and daughters of the poor to go to the highest level in education. The son of the poor under our government will reach his maximum potential in this country. “At the primary level, we are going to build at least 500,000 classrooms for the out-of-school children who are today over 20 million. “Under our arrangement, we will do whatever it takes to ensure that education is given a priority.” While commenting on the surge in drug abuse cases, he said job opportunities will be created to engage youths. “We will create job opportunities to stop this madness of taking drugs. Our young men and women today unfortunately are taking too much drugs and that has got to stop. That is what we have done in Kano,” he said. “Those who get themselves involved in drugs, we will take them there to ensure they come out as normal people. We will create job opportunities for them. Those who should go to school must go to school. “We have gone round the country to ensure that we see our people, to ensure that we take records of the dilapidated infrastructure. “We will make sure we listen to our people to tell us which is important that our government should do when we are sworn in.”