Abubakar Malami, the attorney-general of the federation (AGF), has inaugurated the General Council of the Bar. Delivering his keynote address on Monday at the ceremony in Abuja, Malami urged members of the council to remain committed to professionalism. “The importance of the council’s activities cannot, therefore, be over-emphasised, and as such, there is an obvious need to reinvigorate the council by ensuring that necessary structures are put in place which will allow it perform optimally,” he said. Malami also advised the NBA to work in synergy with the council “to build an enviable legal profession that will be beneficial to us all”. “A body which consists of all the chief law officers in the federation cannot simply be ignored by any leadership of the NBA which is truly desirous of making significant impact on the administration of justice and promotion of the rule of law generally in Nigeria,” the AGF said. “The Bar Council is, and should be seen, as a vehicle or platform for driving the developmental agenda of the NBA, implementing NBA resolutions, and influencing government policies in view of its composition by the attorneys-general who are strategically positioned to influence their excellencies, the president and state governors. “The NBA should consider the Bar Council as an alternate board of trustees or advisory body, a link or liaison with the federal executive council, state executive councils, national and state assemblies, Nigerian Governors Forum, conference of speakers of state assemblies, etc.” The Bar Council is headed by the AGF. Other members of the council are the attorneys-general of the states and 20 NBA members. The 20 other members are listed as Aikpokpo-Martins Obaika, Agada Mercy ljato, lgba Theophilus Terhile, Oyeyiola Durodoluwa Emmanuel, Bello Abdulganiyu, Usman Joshua Enemali, Abdullahi Faskari Barau, Nduka Rapuluchukwu Ernest, Anizoba Obi Lawrence, and Nwaeze Nnaebuka Onyebuchi. Others are Anagor Raphael Nnamdi, Agi Anne Uruegi, Okwun-Kalu Dave Ndara, Oladapo Olalekan Idowu, Lagbamue Israel Solomon, Edun Olukunle Ogheneovo, Akintayo John Oluwole Akinbiyi, Onwere Victor, Chinonye, Maidoki Muhhammad Mahmood, and Agbaga Dennis Ejakpovwere.