The National Sugar Development Council (NSDC) says it will sanction operators violating the guidelines of the national sugar master plan (NSMP). Zacch Adedeji, executive secretary, NSDC, said this at the official take-off of the Nigeria Sugar Institute (NSI) in Illorin, Kwara state, on Wednesday. In a statement signed by Abdullahi Yunusa, head, public affairs, Adedeji said the year 2023 would be dedicated to the data-driven and vigorous pursuit of Nigeria’s self-sufficiency in sugar production. He added that the year marked the end of the implementation of the NSMP phase one and the commencement of the second phase. In 2012, the federal government approved a 10-year regulatory document for the sugar sector known as the Nigeria sugar master plan. Last year, the federal executive council (FEC) approved the second phase of the NSMP. Adedeji, who also commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration for giving the sugar sector the attention it deserves, noted that the agency will not hesitate to “sanction anyone found willfully distorting the sugar master plan”. “Only last year, Mr. President approved the presidential intervention on sugarcane irrigation for sugar operators to cushion the effect of losses and delays caused by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020,” he added. “For us at the council, the year 2023 is both historic and epochal. 2023 will mark the end of phase one of the Nigeria sugar masterplan which began in 2013, while 2023 will also mark the commencement of the implementation of phase two of the Nigeria sugar master plan which will run through 2033. So, we already have our work cut out for us. “The next 10 years are very important to us as a sector. We shall not hesitate to sanction anyone found willfully distorting the sugar master plan. “Our job at the sugar council is both regulatory and developmental. We pride ourselves more as development partners than regulators. Ours is to provide the enabling environment, formulate policies and provide technical support to investors who are interested in taking advantage of the huge opportunities in the sector. Our doors are widely open to willing investors.” DATA AND TECH CRITIAL TO REVAMPING SUGAR SECTOR Adedeji, further speaking on council’s plans for the year, said positioning Nigeria’s sugar sector for global competitiveness requires the adoption of data and technology. “Without mincing words, research, data and technology are critical ingredients required to build a sugar sector that would place Nigeria among the comity of leading sugar producers within the continent,” Adedeji said. “It was in the realisation of this irrefutable fact that the council thought it wise to commit both human and material resources which gave birth to this institute. I salute the foresight and vision of my predecessors who began the entire process in the first place.” “We are committed to putting in place programmes, policies, and innovations that would accelerate Nigeria’s drive to attain self-sufficiency in sugar production through faithful implementation of the NSMP.” “It is a known fact that the nation’s sugar sector has witnessed some significant reforms in the last 10 years. “The sector is now well regulated, roles of stakeholders are clearly defined, formulation of enabling laws and policies to aid growth and heavy reliance on modern technology to drive the process.” The executive secretary said the institute is the training and development arm of the NSCD. According to Adedeji, it is saddled with the responsibility of imparting knowledge and training experts within the sector. “We are equally calling on major sugar operators to henceforth bring in their workers here for training both on factory and field matters. The institute has put in place all the needed manpower and facilities to meet the training needs and aspirations of sugar companies and factories,” he added. “Also, this institute provides direct jobs for over 100 Nigerians and indirect jobs to members of the community hosting it. I wish to also stress that the citing of this institute has brought development and turned around the economic fortunes of members of the host community.”