The Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) says it is set to hold a series of dialogues on the nation’s economy with presidential candidates. Laoye Jaiyeola, NESG’s chief executive officer (CEO), said this in a statement on Monday. The think-tank group said the discussions will be geared towards sensitising the public as well as the presidential candidates, drawing out a strategy for a prosperous Nigeria. “As part of our commitment to national development and our principle to provide an economic foundation for democracy, the Nigerian Economic Summit Group is set to hold a series of dialogues on the Nigerian economy with presidential candidates that will accentuate discussions on the roadmap towards an inclusive and prosperous Nigeria.,” the statement reads. “Nigeria is at a decisive point in its history and as we countdown to the 2023 polls, it is critical, like never before, to nudge Nigerians towards making informed voting choices. “The challenge before us, therefore, is to ensure the evolution of a process towards a leadership with a broad knowledge of the issues and the political will to steer the ship of our great nation towards shared economic prosperity. “In a bid to live up to our mandate to foster the establishment of an economic foundation for democracy, we will actively seek independent direct engagements with the presidential candidates on critical economic policy reform issues and prescriptions, in the national interest. “The presidential dialogue series is geared towards sensitising stakeholders and citizens of Nigeria on peaceful, informed, and accountable democratic participation; and would provide a unique platform and opportunity for presidential candidates to discuss their economic agenda in an environment of civil discourse.” The NESG added that the dialogue seeks to curate content that focuses on the state of the economy and addresses the concerns of the citizens before the 2023 presidential elections. In November last year, the group had scheduled a presidential debate on economic policy. NESG, however, cancelled the event due to” statements from political parties” at that time.