Electricity distribution companies (DisCos) in the country say customers will experience a reduction in power supply for an indefinite period. This is contained in separate statements issued on Saturday by Kano, Abuja, and Ikeja electricity distribution companies (KEDCO, AEDC, and IKEDC). According to the DisCos, the shortage of electricity supply is due to “insufficient load allocation received”. “We apologise for the current poor power supply you have been experiencing in certain parts of our network lately. This is due to the inadequate allocation received, hence the load shedding,” IKEDC said. “We regret the inconvenience this has caused and wish to assure that we are engaging the responsible stakeholders in the electricity value chain to improve the situation.” Dear Esteemed Customer, We apologize for the current poor power supply you have been experiencing in certain parts of our network lately. This is due to the inadequate allocation received, hence the load shedding. We regret the inconvenience this has caused and wish to… 1/2 pic.twitter.com/eRUIdLqFj5 — Ikeja Electric (@IkejaElectric) January 20, 2023  Also speaking on the issue, KEDCO said the load allocation had constantly reduced, and therefore, became inadequate to supply all customers. “This is to kindly inform our esteemed customers that the low power supply currently being experienced across our franchise is due to low power generation nationwide,” it said. “Consequently, the load allocation to KEDCO has drastically reduced and is barely adequate to supply all our customers sufficiently, thus the massive load shedding. “We reassure our esteemed customers of our uninhibited commitment to providing quality electricity supply as soon as generation and allocation from Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) improves. “We sincerely apologise for all inconveniences resulting from this regrettable development.” UPDATE ON POWER SUPPLY! pic.twitter.com/3qM05AsiRu — Kedco Nigeria (@kedcoplc) January 19, 2023  Dear Customers, this is for your information.#AEDC #Abujadisco #PowerUpdate pic.twitter.com/hQ26aiea8a — aedcelectricity (@aedcelectricity) January 21, 2023  TheCable understands that the load allocation is received by the DisCos from the generation companies (GenCos). The load allocation formula is contained in the multi year tariff order (MYTO), which guides the power sector. Under the MYTO load allocation, the DisCos in Nigeria share the total volume of power generated by the GenCos on a ratio based on their customer base. It was also observed that the ‘insufficient load allocation’ being reported by DisCos had persisted for two weeks as the Port Harcourt electricity distribution company (PHED) had notified customers of low power supply in a statement dated January 14, 2023. However, PHED blamed the decline in supply on “constrains on the grid”. Meanwhile, some of the distribution and generation companies did not respond when TheCable contacted them for comments on the matter.