The new season of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) resumed with loads of thrilling results across the two groups of the abridged league. A shocking 2-0 victory for newly-promoted Bendel Insurance away at Akwa United last weekend seemed like a forewarning of what was to come. Twenty-one goals were scored in the remaining nine games which coughed up three away victories and a six-goal thriller in Plateau. Nasarawa United 1-2 Enyimba In the first game of the weekend which was held on Saturday, Enyimba threw down the gauntlet for other contenders as they smashed and grabbed a victory away against Nasarawa United FC. The People’s Elephant’s first goal came in the 33rd minute through Elijah Akanidomo. Four minutes later, Imo Obot doubled their lead with a brilliant free-kick. Although Josiah Oche pulled one back for the hosts in the 87th minute, it was too late to muster a comeback. Plateau United 3-3 Shooting Stars It was a goalfest as United and Shooting Stars tried to outscore each other. Three goals in each half summed up the thrilling encounter. Shooting Stars took the lead in the sixth minute and Emmanuel Onyebuchi replied for United three minutes later. Anthony Okachi returned the Oluyole Warriors back into the lead after 18 minutes and it remained the same until another goal from the away team in the 65th minute. Izuchukwu Chimezie and Onyebuchi balanced the tie with two late goals. Enugu Rangers 0-2 Abia Warriors Warriors stunned Rangers at the Nnamdi Azikwe Stadium on Sunday with goals from Bello Lukman and Monday Yakubu. Remo Stars 2-0 El Kanemi Warriors Two goals from Samuel Anakwe and Ezekiel Edidiong were the difference as the Sky Blue defeated the Warriors in Ikenne. Rivers United 2-1 Lobi Stars The defending champions were off to a flying start to the new season but it took a late penalty by Kenechukwu Agu to squeeze past Lobi Stars in Port Harcourt. Morice Chukwu had earlier put United in the lead in the 16th minute before Umar Abba scored a leveller for Lobi. Doma United 1-1 Sunshine Stars The newly-promoted Doma United held their own against the Owena Waves in Gombe. It took a late goal from Ibrahim Yusuf for Sunshine to steal a point after falling behind in the 38th minute. Bayelsa United 1-1 Dakkada FC The spoils were shared between the newly-promoted Bayelsa United and Dakkada at the Samson Siasia Stadium in Yenagoa. Kwara United 0-0 Gombe United It finished goalless as Gombe United stole a vital away point in Ilorin. Wikki Tourists 0-2 Niger Tornadoes Tornadoes earned themselves a deserved away win — the third of the match day.