Bola Tinubu, standard bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has asked the Federation of Construction Industry in Nigeria (FOCI) to support his target of providing massive infrastructure when elected. Tinubu spoke at a consultative session with FOCI in Abuja on Thursday. The presidential candidate said he has plans to continue the developmental feats achieved by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in terms of infrastructure. Therefore, the former Lagos governor asked the FOCI for support to achieve his target of massively developing the country’s infrastructure, if he is elected president. Tinubu told FOCI that he would focus on transportation infrastructure: building more roads, and rails, and improving water transport for easier movement of humans and goods. “We must work together and collaborate to look at the bottlenecks impeding the realisation of the full potential of the construction industry and make realistic efforts to address them,” he said. “God willing, as we assume the mantle of leadership, we shall build an even more prosperous economy. This means additional investment in relevant infrastructure: roads, bridges, rail, airports, schools, power facilities, hospitals, and more. These will enhance efficiency, support industrial growth, spur trade and investment, and improve the ease of doing business. “My commitment to increase annual gross domestic product (GDP) growth will heavily depend on the quality of the infrastructure we shall build to facilitate and sustain growth in all facets of our national life. “Overall, the transportation sector is valued at N37 trillion. Transport activities contributed 1.84 percent to real GDP in the second quarter (Q2) 2022. Sustaining the political will and technical capacity to move people and goods in a safe, affordable, and accessible manner will create a better future for Nigerians. “We will, therefore, work hard to improve our various transportation systems and, in the process, unlock the value chain of opportunities therein.” DEEPENING REFORMS IN THE RAILWAY SECTOR Speaking further on rail infrastructure, Tinubu said his government would enhance the use of railways to reduce the cost of moving goods and services across the nation. If elected, he promised to sustain the investments already made by the Buhari administration and deepen ongoing reforms in the sector. “Apart from its cost-effectiveness, enhanced rail use will reduce strain and congestion on our roads and expressways, thereby, significantly lowering the number of vehicular accidents. My administration will also encourage state governments to build public transportation or metro systems in their capital cities,” Tinubu said. “The metros will link with existing national rail lines and revolutionise urban transport in Nigeria. This will boost commerce and contribute significantly to GDP growth.” He added that his administration would prioritise the completion of critical ongoing national railway projects such as Lagos to Kano; Benin to Abakaliki; Port Harcourt to Maiduguri; Lagos to Calabar; and Kano to Maradi. “In addition, we shall deploy technology and security assets to protect travellers and ensure the safety and integrity of our railway infrastructure,” he said. Tinubu also promised that his administration will help decongest Apapa port by modernising other existing ports. “I commit to realising the immense opportunities inherent in the Lekki deep seaport, the first new seaport in decades, which is more than 90 percent completed,” he said.