Gunmen have reportedly killed three persons during an attack on Durbawa village in Denge-Shuni, Sokoto south LGA of the state. Speaking with TheCable on Monday, Mubarak Bello, a resident of Durbawa, said the gunmen attacked the village on Sunday. Bello said the assailants invaded Durbawa village in large numbers, adding that three residents were shot dead, while several others sustained injuries. He said his friend who was shot in the leg is currently receiving treatment at the Usmanu Dafodiyo University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), adding that other communities were also invaded. He, however, said he could not confirm if there were casualties recorded in the other affected villages. “The bandits came in numbers — at least, more than 200 of them on their motorcycles — and started shooting everywhere,” he said. “As I am speaking with you, I am currently at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital to visit my friend who got shot in the leg during the attack yesterday. “In Durbawa village, three people were killed but I can’t confirm the number of people that were killed in other villages because the bandits attacked about 15 villages in Denge-Shuni axis. “Some of the villages are Zamau, Durbawa, Bubari, and Lambo.” Meanwhile, Sanusi Abubakar, police spokesperson in the state, debunked the claims of the attack, saying the residents only raised an alarm when they spotted some cattle rustlers around Lambo village. Abubakar said the police chased the cattle rustlers away, adding that nobody was injured, kidnapped, or killed in the process. “Actually, there are some misconceptions about the attack which is actually not in Durbawa or Gagi but at Lambo, which is about 10 kilometres away from the metropolis,” he said. “There were alleged cattle rustlers. When we heard the information, we quickly mobilised and they were chased away and up till now, nobody was killed or kidnapped. At this moment, we don’t have any record of someone killed or kidnapped, but investigation is ongoing. “It is at one village called Lambo — nobody was injured and they were chased away by security personnel. Cattle rustlers were sighted moving but people started panicking so we raised our tactical team yesterday. They had an encounter with them and we were able to chase them away. “That is the situation at hand currently but if we can find anything further, we will communicate with you.”