The Department of State Services (DSS) says it has no case against Mahmood Yakubu, chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). On Wednesday, a federal capital territory (FCT) high court dismissed allegations of false asset declaration against Yakubu and also barred the DSS, the police, and Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) from investigating him over his asset declaration. One Somadina Uzoamaka had filed a suit, marked FCT/HC/GAR/CV/47/2022, against the attorney-general of the federation (AGF) and Yakubu, seeking, among other things, an order of mandatory injunction directing and compelling the INEC chairman to step down pending the investigation and consideration of the allegations against him by law enforcement agencies. Reacting in a statement on Friday, Peter Afunanya, DSS spokesperson, clarified that the service never went to court against the INEC chairman. The DSS spokesperson also denied insinuations that the security agency is involved in the matter. “This statement, however, becomes important to guide public understanding and perception, especially that the said report is misleading,” he said. “It falsely left an impression that the service went to court against the INEC chairman. “Nonetheless, the service is aware of the antics of some mischievous elements who are desirous of fomenting crisis in the country, including creating unnecessary controversies around the forthcoming general elections. “One of their strategies is to subvert the efforts of the service in ensuring peaceful coexistence and harmony. “Another is a determination to overheat the polity and subtly exploit the judiciary to distract or even undermine not only the Service but other security and law enforcement agencies from undertaking their constitutional roles. “The DSS, therefore, warns these individuals and groups to desist from their devious plans.  It also advises all critical stakeholders to be vigilant and resist attempts to use them to thwart the law. “While assuring Nigerians and the international community of the service’s commitment to the maintenance of law and order, including an accomplishment of a free and fair 2023 election as already pledged by Mr President and commander-in-chief, the service urges all and sundry to join in the pursuit of national stability and unity.”