Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says the resignation of A.B.C. Nwosu from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has vindicated the stance of the G5 governors. Nwosu, a member of the PDP board of trustees (BoT) and an ally of Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the party, recently resigned his membership of the party. In a letter addressed to Iyorchia Ayu, national chairman of the PDP, and Adolphus Wabara, acting chairman of the party’s BoT, Nwosu said he was leaving the PDP over the party’s failure to respect the zoning arrangement in its constitution. Speaking on Saturday when stakeholders of Ogu/Bolo LGA visited him at the government house in Port Harcourt, the Rivers capital, Wike said the development lends credence to the position of the G5 governors on the demand for equity, fairness, and justice. “I have continued to challenge them. What is the problem? What are we fighting for? What I said and will continue to say is that all of us are from this country. Nobody is a second-class citizen,” Wike said. “We are agreed that this is how our party will be. Recently Prof. A.B.C. Nwosu resigned from the party, saying that his conscience will not allow him, that the constitution of the party is clear — ‘if you take this, these other people will take that’. Why now are we saying that we won’t do it again? “What the people are saying is ‘look, you have taken this; let these people take that’, and you are saying you will take all. If you take all, you will also face the repercussions.” The Rivers governor also said nobody can intimidate the state. “You cannot fight anybody that God has blessed. God has blessed Rivers state. Anybody fighting Rivers state, you are fighting yourself,” he added. “Nobody can intimidate us. No one state in this country can intimidate Rivers state. If you want to fight us, we will fight you to the last. “If you want to make peace with us, we will make peace with you to the last. But thinking that anybody will come and intimidate us and then we will chicken out, that is not possible.”