 Nigeria’s First Online Interactive Gaming Lottery, wow!lotto, kicked off the last quarter of the year 2022, with an exciting promo called Jackpot Marketplace, where Nigerians were given the opportunity to live their wow! dreams by participating in the different raffle draws to win amazing Jackpot cash and non-cash prizes.  Over 700,000 tickets were sold for all the raffle draws in the last twelve weeks. Several players across Nigeria emerged winners of the mega raffle prizes which included the latest 2022 Kia Seltos Car, iPhones, Laptop, PS5, Samsung phones and Tablets, Samsung Smart wristwatches, LG TVs, Adidas Football Merch(Jerseys, Footballs, Football kits), Microwave, toaster, power banks, Bluetooth speakers, Air Pods and many more.  Amongst the winners who won terrific prizes from this Jackpot Marketplace promo, there were a few of them who told their wow stories: Mbah Augustine, the HP Laptop winner, considers wow!lotto very rewarding because it is a source of income for him. He started playing in August 2022 & liked the raffle draw innovation. “I believed my luck would be strong enough to win the laptop and that was why I bought the ticket. I am delighted now that I have a laptop because it will make a lot of difference”, he said.  Eze Chukwuemeka Sebastian, the PS5 winner , mentioned that he bought over 1200 tickets for the PS5 alone and is very grateful to be selected.  Yilfa Kurdor, the N200,000 winner, started playing early last year when he saw a post about wow!lotto on Facebook. In his words, “I was optimistic that I was going to win the N200K cash prize on Jackpot Marketplace and that was why I bought the ticket for the Raffle draw. I will spend the money on some of my pending expenses.”  The climax of this campaign was the grand raffle draw for the latest 2022 Kia Seltos car which was won by a lucky player with name Rabiu Shaibu who went all out with his ticket purchase to let luck shine on him for the car prize. In his words, “I started playing wow!lotto 2-3 months ago around the time the promo started. I didn’t imagine winning the car, but I wanted to win, so I bought over 700 tickets for the car raffle draw and I was hopeful luck would shine on me. When I was called the winner, I couldn’t believe it until the wow!lotto team sent me my flight ticket to Abuja for the car presentation. I am still in shock and very happy as I never expected it. I just want everyone to know that wow!lotto is real and I have started telling friends and family about the wow!lotto brand.”  Marketing Manager, wow!lotto, Esther Abu commented on the promo. She mentioned that the Jackpot Marketplace promo was set up on the wow!lotto lottery platform to give Nigerians the opportunity to live their wow! dreams. She said, “This promo allowed our players to select their preferred raffle draws on the wow!lotto platform and they had the chance to go all out with their ticket purchase to become the lucky winners of these raffle prizes. As a brand, we are particularly excited to have been able to put smiles on the faces of Nigerians in the last quarter of 2022 by allowing their wow! dreams come to reality while they play fun games and win big.” We are looking to do bigger and more exciting promos in the new year 2023”, she added.    To catch up on all the latest news on wow!lotto, follow www.instagram.com/wowlotto.ng/ on Instagram and www.tiktok.com/@wowlotto on Tiktok, twitter.com/wowlotto_ng on Twitter, on Facebook www.facebook.com/wowlotto.official. About wow!lotto wow!lotto is Nigeria’s first-ever Interactive Online Lottery and Gaming Platform. Experience a mix of betting and lottery excitement when you play our thrilling games to win up to N100,000,000. Each game offers huge jackpots and has its own win feature and winning combinations. Our lottery gaming interface is exceptional because we keep working on new games in different themes and mechanics to give you a renewed user experience. The interactive reality of wow!lotto is full of instant winnings and genuine impressions! wow!lotto: Have Fun, Win Big! 