The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet), is set to assist Gambia and Niger Republic to build capacity in weather forecasting. Mansur Matazu, director-general of NiMet, said this in Abuja on Monday, when he received delegations from both countries for a 10-day technical study visit. Matazu said the study would advance their knowledge of meteorological activities for the safety of lives and properties in their countries. He said NiMet experts would teach them how to observe weather and climate to provide meteorological, hydrological, and oceanographic services. “These two countries will learn experience in seasonal climate prediction (SCP) on Tuesday, weather prediction, issue of climate change impact mitigation and adaptation in Nigeria,” Matazu said. “In addition, we will share the experience with our Niger team, specifically on database management and applied meteorology. “For the Gambia team, we want to share ideas with them on impact-based forecast feasibility and relevance. “So, we are going to exchange and share experiences as well as med-service prediction. We have a robust med-service prediction that is responsible for providing these exchanges of ideas and the issue of climate change, both impact on liability, adaptation, and litigation.” Katiellou Lawan, the public relations officer, Niger Republic Meteorological Services, said the country hoped to learn a lot from NiMet because it is one of the most successful meteorological agencies in Africa. “We have always turned to the north. I think we have to stop or maybe reduce that and also develop south-south cooperation. “That is why we want this initiative because Nigeria is more advanced than us in almost all the fields because we have insufficient resources. “But we know we are doing our best to actually fulfill all missions given to us. In Niger, we are in the process of the modernisation of the med service. “Africa is one. We just only have physical boundaries. We have a lot to benefit from one another,” he said. Also, Lamin Mai, leader of the Gambian team, and the director, department of water resources, explained that the country lacks experts and expected that NiMet could help improve their capacity. “We may have the tools, but we do not have the experts. NiMet will help us in capacity building,“ he said. 