Gunmen have reportedly attacked the office of Benjamin Kalu, spokesperson of the house of representatives, located in Uzuakoli, Bende LGA of Abia state. Confirming the development to journalists on Saturday, Kalu said the attack occurred at about 10pm on Friday. He said the ceilings, windows, APC flags, and billboards were destroyed. “My office, that is the office of the Bende federal constituency located at Uzuakoli was attacked a few minutes past 10pm last night, that is the 27th of January,” he said. “Over 100 bullets were found, destroying the windows, doors, and ceilings. The APC flags were pulled down and turned into shreds; the billboards were destroyed and there was no presence of any security agents until they left. “The matter had been reported by my aides at the Uzuakoli police station under the Bende division.” The house of representatives spokesperson also said the attackers are envious of his efforts on good governance, adding that they can only destroy his office, but not his legacy. “I wish to state that to advance our democracy, violence is not part of it. Political ideology, style of leadership that is transparent and accountable to the people are instruments that will break the walls of our democracy,” he added. “The past three and a half years, I have dedicated my servant leadership position to better the lots of Bende federal constituency and the people of Bende federal constituency with infrastructure attracted through the office of the president of the federal republic of Nigeria. “My political party, the APC, has as a ruling party shown presence in the Bende federal constituency in education, health, infrastructure, and all the aspects of our lives. This was possible because my representation put the people at the centre stage. “This obviously has offended many people who would have liked us to remain in the status quo ante, how we used to be, where dividends of democracy were a strange thing to the people of Bende. They have demystified and their reaction is to attack the windows, doors, ceiling, and the flags of the constituency of office of Bende federal constituency. “My message to them is that, though you gave attacked the windows, doors, and billboards of my party, my party through my representation has left indestructible evidence of good governance to my people.” See photos below:      