Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says he and his political associates will support a presidential candidate that has integrity. Wike spoke on Wednesday at the flag-off of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign rally in Rumuji-Odegwe town, Emohua LGA of the state. The governor said the presidential candidate he and his allies will support would be someone who can be trusted and keeps to his promises. Wike told the crowd at the rally ground that their “patience” in waiting for him to decide on who they will support for the presidential election will not be taken for granted. “Chief Awuse has said, ‘we are tired of waiting’. Indeed, we are tired of waiting. But don’t worry, you have been patient. Your being patient will not be taken for granted,” he said. “The bell will soon ring. When you hear the bell, listen to where the bell is coming from and go and do what you have been told to do. “This election of the presidency is about integrity. This election about the presidency is about keeping to your word. If we agree on something with you, can you keep to it? If you cannot keep to it, bye-bye. “I can assure you, all these buccaneers and vampires, we will teach them a lesson. All those who said Rivers state is not important, we’ll tell them that Rivers state is important. If you play with us, we’ll play with you. If they play with us, we’ll play with them. Enough is enough. “So, let me apologise and plead with Ohna, Nne-New-Eli Emohua local government, it is almost time. Very soon, you will hear and I can assure them, no going back.” Wike added that if he and his allies cannot be expelled from the PDP as such a decision will be to the detriment of the party. On Tuesday, Wike said talks with his political allies on the presidential candidate to support will soon be concluded. Known as G5, the five PDP governors — Wike, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Samuel Ortom of Benue, Seyi Makinde of Oyo, and Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia — have been absent from the party’s presidential campaign rallies, and are demanding the resignation of Iyorchia Ayu, national chairman of the party. The demand for Ayu’s resignation is on the grounds that the party’s presidential candidate and national chairperson cannot be from the same region.