Chukwuma Soludo, governor of Anambra, says Nigeria needs leaders who “firmly believe” in the country. He spoke on Thursday when Rabiu Kwankwaso, presidential candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), paid a courtesy visit to the Anambra government house. Speaking during the visit, Soludo said politics should not be a do-or-die affair, adding that despite the country’s challenges, Nigeria has what it takes to become one of the leading economies of the world. “I want to commend your tenacity and belief in the country, your exemplary public service and commitment to our nation,” Soludo said, according to a statement by Christian Aburime, his spokesperson. “I’ve always said that those who have something to offer should offer it through public service. Public service is the biggest philanthropy. “In Anambra and indeed, the South East, we pride ourselves as being republicans and that is freedom to converse. Here in Anambra is the home of Azikiwe, Akweke, Chinua Achebe, Okadigbo, and so on and so forth and here we are known as people who freely express themselves and associate themselves. “As an itinerant people, we cannot afford to be an intolerant tribe. We have a popular saying that ‘Oje mba, enwe ilo’. My position is that everyone should be allowed to canvass freely and allow people to make their choice. “It’s a serious matter of where the country is and where the country will be in future. It is time for the progressives to begin to think of the ordinary person. “The hard work is beyond the election. Whoever wins, we need to sift out and bring out almost like a government of like minds for the transformation of this country. “We are blessed. We have lots of challenges, but we need people who firmly believe in this country. It is possible for Nigeria to be one of the first seven best economies in the world. “We wish you best of luck in this movement, even though I’ve been intensely focused on what is going on in my party. This state is blessed. We are trying everything to make it work. “Large population of our people are in Kano. As Ndị Igbo, we are a great stakeholder in all the places. Here in Anambra, our politics is such that when we are running, we can fight among ourselves, but after the election, you see our people together, chatting. It’s not a do-or-die affair. Everybody should campaign freely.” Also present during the visit included Ernest Ezeajughi, chief of staff to the governor; J.P.C. Anetoh, principal secretary to the governor; Collins Nwabunwanne, commissioner for local government and chieftaincy affairs;  Paul Nwosu, commissioner for information; and Sly Ezeokenwa, commissioner for special duties. See photos below.   