Lauretta Onochie, chairperson of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), has pledged to improve the quality of the commission’s projects. The new board members of the NDDC were inaugurated on January 4, 2023. Speaking on Tuesday at a ceremony organised by the Buhari Support Organisations (BSO) to celebrate her appointment as NDDC chairperson, Onochie said under her watch, the commission will work with the best contractors on projects for the Niger Delta region. “The days of portfolio contractors and splitting contracts have ended. It is not going to be the same anymore,” she said. “Although it is going to be a difficult task, President Muhammadu Buhari has made my appointment into NDDC easier. “This is because he had ordered a forensic audit, and from the result, Nigerians were angered when they saw the quantum of evidence that was presented during the audit. “We are not going to be looking at the forensic audit as a board, but we are going to do things differently. “I’m very lucky to be a disciple of President Muhammadu Buhari, who everybody knows that he is an incorruptible leader, as he is a man that abhors corruption.” Onochie also said the new board will ensure the youths of the region benefit massively this time. “We are going to stand with our people, as our youths are going to benefit massively, and the NDDC staffers that have been long suffering in the region are going to have a new lease of life,” she added. “They are going to be retrained; [we’ll] rehire some of them as technical aides rather than looking elsewhere. We are just going to do things totally different.” She said the commission would train the youths and equip them with the requisite skills, so that they are able to establish their own businesses and become employers of labour. In his remarks, Umar Shuaibu, chairperson of BSO, described Onochie as “an incorruptible person” that has been tested and trusted. He expressed optimism that she will be the game changer in the Niger Delta region. “We know that a new sheriff is now in town. God willing, it is not going to be business as usual in the area,” he said. “Our advice to her is to always stand strong, and affirm that belief and incorruptible nature of her to make sure that the right thing is done, and we have confidence that the right will be done in the NDDC.”