Growing frustration at the worsening energy situation in South Africa is seeing residents call for a national shutdown. On Monday, residents of Boksburg took to the streets to protest against long hours of power cuts. TimesLive, local news site, reports that roads in Boksburg have been blockaded with burning tyres and rocks. The protest was at the corner of Rondebult road and the R554 between Dawn Park and Klippoortjie in the city. “The road has been barricaded by protesters due to a service delivery protest that started earlier this morning. We have SAPS and EMPD monitoring the scene,” TimesLive quoted Deliwe Ndlovu, police spokesperson, to have said. “Motorists are advised to use alternative routes to avoid further delays.” This is not the first time Boksburg is witnessing violent protests as protests over poor services occur regularly in South Africa. In 2018, residents blocked off a major route with stones and burning tyres over “illegal” use of electricity from neighboring areas. Soweto has also recorded violent protests over electricity. In 2021, several roads were cordoned off with rocks and stones by residents over a lack of electricity supply. In August 2022, at least four people died during protests over the cost of electricity in Johannesburg. Experts have warned that the frequency and intensity of load shedding are expected to escalate this year. The announcement of a massive hike in electricity costs has spurred a call for a national shutdown on February 9, which is trending on social media platforms such as Twitter. It isn’t immediately clear who is responsible for the protest action. Please circulate this as much as you can, the date has been set, #NationalShutdown pic.twitter.com/8SDkpl8ANh — Bhungane (@Iam_Ntsindiso) January 13, 2023  Politicians from opposing parties are also using the national shutdown hashtag to express their positions on the electricity crisis. “The success of the #NationalShutdown would be dependent on it being depoliticised,” Gayton McKenzie, leader of Patriotic Alliance, a political party, tweeted. “You are first a citizen before you are a member of a political party and loadshedding affects all citizens even those amongst us who are off grid. Let’s protest together as South Africans.” The success of the #NationalShutdown would be dependent on it being depoliticised. You are first a citizen before you are a member of a political party and loadshedding affects all citizens even those amongst us who are off grid. Let’s protest together as South Africans. — Gayton McKenzie (@GaytonMcK) January 15, 2023  