Yekini Nabena, a former deputy spokesperson of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says the G5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are “handicapped”. The G5 governors are Samuel Ortom of Benue, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Seyi Makinde of Oyo, Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia, and Nyesom Wike of Rivers. Wike had said talks with his political allies on the candidate to support in the presidential election will soon be concluded. Before then, TheCable had reported how former President Olusegun Obasanjo made an attempt to get Wike and his group to support Peter Obi, standard bearer of the Labour Party (LP). In a statement on Friday, Nabena said the governors are not seen as loyal to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and would not be trusted if they support a presidential candidate in a different political party. “The G5 governors are confused and handicapped whether as PDP men or as supporters of any opposition party,” Nabena said. “We have been hearing all manner of things. Today they are with Asiwaju, tomorrow they are with Peter Obi and next tomorrow they may work for Atiku. Which one do we believe? “If they support our party and we win in the February presidential election, our members won’t see the G5 governors as an ally to be trusted. “Again if they change their minds and work for Atiku, and (God forbid) PDP wins after all they have told Nigerians, they will still be treated like pariahs. The same treatment will befall them in the Labour Party. Therefore, give or take, these governors are losers in waiting.” The politician said no presidential candidate is banking on the support of the governors. “I will advise those who are still waiting on the G5 governors to shift their attention to the real voters because these governors won’t be at the polling unit on election day,” Nabena said. The former APC deputy spokesperson said Bola Tinubu, standard bearer of the ruling party, has been accepted nationwide. “By the God’s grace victory is certain for the APC and that’s why I don’t think we need the support of these paperweight G5 governors because it will be unfair to our leaders in these five states who are working hard and mobilising for our candidate to be relegated for the PDP governors,” he said.