The National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA) has called on eligible Nigerians to receive booster doses of the COVID vaccine. Faisal Shuaib, executive director of the NPHCDA, said this on Monday at a media briefing organised by the ministry of health on the update of COVID response and developments in the country’s health sector. Shuaib said more than 50 percent of eligible Nigerians have been fully vaccinated against COVID, adding that it the agency’s target was to have vaccinated 70 percent of Nigeria’s eligible population by December 2022. “As at today, January 9, 2023, 76,161,470 eligible persons have received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccines in Nigeria, representing 65.7 percent of our eligible population; 64,094,498 persons have been fully vaccinated and this represents 55.3 percent of our eligible population; 9,892,018 have received their booster doses,” he said. “This year, we have seen an increase in the number of our eligible population from 111,773,503 to 115,983,921 as a result of increase in number of persons who turned 18 years.” The executive director said the fight against COVID is not over, adding that the new Omicron sub-variant, XBB.1.5, is quickly becoming the dominant strain in parts of the United States and has been detected in at least 28 other countries. He said the increase in number of cases seen globally is as a result of the mutation occurring and the low intake of booster doses. He, therefore, called on Nigerians to “ensure that they take their booster doses of the COVID-19 vaccines”. “We are continuously working with all stakeholders at national, state and local governments to increase awareness, social mobilisation, and increase coverage,” he said. ‘As at January 7, 2023, Nigeria has a vaccine stock balance of 28,968,045 doses. More vaccines are still expected over the coming weeks. “We, therefore, encourage all Nigerians to visit the nearest government facility to ensure they are up to date with either their first, second or booster doses. The COVID-19 vaccines are available. They are free and they are safe. “We will continue to work with the states and partners to ensure that low performing states are pushed to ensure full coverage of all eligible populations. “Remember, it is not yet over. We must continue to work together to ensure Nigerians remain fully protected against the virus.” Also speaking at the briefing, Ifedayo Adetifa, director-general of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said the agency is closely monitoring the Omicron sub-variant XBB.1.5. “The most important action for Nigerians to take is to get vaccinated as the vaccine is the most important intervention for preventing severe disease, hospitalisation, and death,” he added.