A truck conveying over 70 supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been involved in an accident in Plateau, leaving seven people dead. The accident occurred on Saturday at Jwak village, Panyam district of Mangu LGA, after the zonal rally of the party which was held in Pankshin. Peter Longsan, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) public education officer in Plateau, confirmed the incident. Longsan said so far, seven persons have been confirmed dead. “As we speak, I’m still waiting for a comprehensive report from our men on the ground, but so far, we are told seven people lost their lives,” he said. “We are also told that over seventy persons were loaded in the truck which crashed at Panyam in Mangu on their way back to Jos.” Longsan said the injured are currently receiving treatment at a hospital in Mangu. Caleb Mutfwang, PDP governorship candidate in the state, has commiserated with the families of those who lost their lives in the accident. Mutfwang said he would visit the victims at the various hospitals to ascertain the severity of their condition and the necessary steps to take. Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the party, has expressed his condolences to the families of the victims. “I am numbed by the tragedy in which scores of lives were lost and injured in a road accident at the end of the Plateau Central PDP Campaign flag-off yesterday in Pankshin LGA. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims,” he said. I am numbed by the tragedy in which scores of lives were lost and injured in a road accident at the end of the Plateau Central PDP Campaign flag-off yesterday in Pankshin LGA. My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims. — Atiku Abubakar (@atiku) January 15, 2023  In December, two persons lost their lives while seven others were injured in a boat accident involving supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta state. The supporters were returning from the party’s rally in Okerenkoko community in Warri south-west LGA of the state.