Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, has clarified the context of his statement concerning Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), over ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo’s endorsement of Peter Obi. According to a statement by Kelvin Ebiri, his spokesperson, Wike spoke on Tuesday during the flag-off of the construction of Mgbuodohia road in Rumuolumene town, Obio-Akpor LGA. On Sunday, Obasanjo declared his support for Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), saying he has what it takes to put Nigeria on the right path to progress. Following the endorsement, Wike had said “something is fundamentally wrong” if Abubakar could not get the support of the former president whom he served with. Clarifying his comment on Tuesday, Wike said his remarks on the endorsement of Obi stemmed from his concern for the PDP. “I meant no bad. I’m only worried as a prominent PDP member. A man who loves PDP should be worried. I was not mocking anybody. I was merely worried,” Wike said. “My prayer was, ‘look, let Obasanjo remain quiet and not say anything’. That was all my prayer, but my prayer didn’t work. My prayer was that if this man makes any statement, it will indict us because he was president under the Peoples Democratic Party for eight years, and he worked with our presidential candidate. “And the campaign of our presidential council is that our presidential candidate, during the eight years, did very well, with experience.” Wike also said only those who love the PDP would be focused on ensuring that nothing untoward happens to the party. “What did I do? I didn’t do anything. All I did was express concern. If you care for this party, it is for you to go back and ask what is fundamentally wrong” he said. “Me, that is worried that we should do something and have expressed it, you’re abusing me for telling the party that we should do something. “They are not bothered, but those of us who since 1998 joined this party, contributed for the survival of this party, until now, we keep shouting always when we see danger coming. “Abuses upon abuses, it will not change anything, Rather, it will spoil more things. What you don’t know, ask people; seek advice. People will help you to solve the problem.” ‘NOBODY CAN DRIVE US OUT OF THE HOUSE WE BUILT’ Wike also said criticising the G5 governors will only complicate the lingering crisis in the PDP. He cautioned those who are issuing threats of possible punitive action against the governors to perish the thought. “Nobody can drive us from this house we have built. All of us will fight here. So, if anybody thinks that you can just sit in your house and dish out orders, it will not work. The house will collapse on you. So, you better think twice,” he said. ‘APC CAN’T WIN IN RIVERS’ Wike also said the “soul and strength” of the All Progressives Congress (APC) “have departed”, and it is only the carcass of the party that remains, therefore, it cannot get any electoral support from Rivers.