The Labour Party (LP) campaign council says the party has agents in all the polling units across the country. Yunusa Tanko, spokesperson of the campaign council, said this in a statement on Sunday. Tanko urged Nigerians to disregard false information circulating on social media that the LP hasn’t submitted names of agents for 90,000 polling units in the northern part of the country. He said the story in circulation is an orchestrated propaganda by the opposition to bring the rising influence of the LP down ahead of the coming elections. The LP campaign spokesperson said the party has foot soldiers scattered to “man all polling units in the north and the entire nation”. “Opposition gimmicks to weaken the resolved minds of Nigerians to vote Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed into power this year will not fly,” the spokesperson said. “We see this as yet another propaganda from the opposition to bring our rising influence down and deceive the electorate in an election year. “We have volunteers all over the country that surpass even the number of agents required for each polling booth so the issue of not being able to supply agents for 90,000 units is a complete fallacy designed by the enemies of progress in Nigeria. “INEC gave a window of up to January 20 for political parties to submit their list of agents for the elections and as such cannot at this time raise concerns about any political party not being able to submit enough agents. “The Labour Party has a task force on the recruitment and selection of agents headed by our presidential candidate H.E. Peter Obi himself and his vice, Datti, the national chairman and the national secretary of the party are all members of that committee. “LPPCC is investigating the source of this propaganda because we know it is not definitely from the INEC. “We appeal to the Obidient family and the teeming supporters of our party to disregard the deceitful information and focus on the collection of their PVCs which are our collective weapons to dislodge the enemies of our dear country.”