The Lagos State police command says two of its officers were shot by Yoruba nation agitators in the Ojota area of Lagos state during a rally on Monday. TheCable had reported that a rally organised by Yoruba nation agitators at the Gani Fawehinmi freedom park in Ojota turned to violence Monday morning. The rally was to demand what they described as a separate nation for the Yoruba people of Nigeria. But police dispersed members of the movement with teargas canisters following which the rally became violent. Speaking after the incident, Banji Akintoye, one of the leaders of Ilana Omo Oodua, alleged that police officers killed two agitators during the “peaceful” rally. ‘TWO POLICE OFFICERS RECEIVING TREATMENT’ Reacting to the incident, Benjamin Hundeyin, Lagos police spokesperson, in a statement, said the two police officers injured during the rally are receiving treatment in a hospital. Hundeyin accused the agitators of disrupting social and commercial activities in the Ojota area under the pretext of the rally. “A team of police officers, comprising Alausa Division and the Raid Respond Squad (RRS) promptly stepped in to disperse the unlawful gathering and prevent a breakdown of law and order,” the Lagos police spokesperson said. “The miscreants attacked the police, shooting, and destroyed two vehicles in the process. One person has been confirmed dead, while two police officers shot by the miscreants are currently receiving treatment. “Four suspects have been arrested and investigations have commenced. Meanwhile, normalcy has been restored to the area. Lagosians are urged to go about their lawful businesses as measures have been put in place to prevent further breakdown of law and order; and keen monitoring of the situation continues.” In the early hours of today, miscreants masquerading as Yoruba Nation Agitators came out in their hundreds, disrupting social and commercial activities at Ojota area of the State. pic.twitter.com/15wxbRO8lg — SP Benjamin Hundeyin (@BenHundeyin) January 9, 2023 