The Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has criticised some state governments over the salary arrears of its members. In a statement by Innocent Orji, its president; Chikezie Kelechi, secretary-general; and Umar Musa, publicity secretary, at the end of its national executive council (NEC) meeting in Akwa Ibom, NARD said the states owing the association are Abia, Ekiti, Imo, and Ondo. NARD described the actions of the states as “embarrassing”, adding that the problem had persisted despite calls by the association to the governments to address the situation. “The NEC noted the perennial and embarrassing inability of the governor of Abia state, Victor Okezie Ikpeazu (PhD) to pay the salary arrears of our members (and other healthcare workers) in Abia State University Teaching Hospital (ABSUTH) to the tune of 25 months despite numerous promises and repeated protracted industrial actions in the state,” the statement reads. “The NEC calls on the federal government, the Nigerian Governors’ forum, the PDP Governors’ forum, the G-5 group of PDP Governors, and all well-meaning Nigerians to help point the governor of Abia State, Victor Okezie Ikpeazu (PhD) to the plight of our members and indeed all healthcare workers in Abia State University Teaching Hospital (ABSUTH) who have been owed salary arrears to the tune of 25 months and are still blackmailed by the state Government to continue to work. “The NEC calls on the federal government, the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, stakeholders, and well-meaning Nigerians to prevail on the governors of Ekiti (3 months), Imo (10 months) and Ondo (5 months) States to urgently pay arrears of salaries and allowances owed our members in the state tertiary health institutions as stated above, as this is becoming embarrassing.” According to the association, the problem is compounded by the delayed review of salaries and allowances which is necessary owing to the current economic situation. Speaking further, NARD lamented the “untold hardship” its members have had to suffer owing to acute manpower shortage and an ongoing “massive” brain drain. The association also condemned the physical assault its members have experienced nationwide, describing it as an “epidemic” and urged the government to look into the matter. Recently, the body had threatened to go on a strike if the federal government does not meet its demands.