The fourth match day of the new Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season produced sparkles that continued in the tradition of the previous weekend. Seventeen goals were scored in a round of fixtures that produced one away win and three draws on the road. Bendel Insurance 3-0 Remo Stars Insurance defeated Remo Stars FC 3-0 in a Group A top-of-the-league clash at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium on Saturday. The win meant the Benin Gunners remain unbeaten after four games with 12 points, scoring eight goals and conceding one. Remo Stars dropped to second on the chart after three wins and one loss in four matches. Dakkada FC 1-2 Rivers United Rivers United secured the lone away win of the weekend with a 2-1 victory over Dakkada FC at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium. The defending champions snatched victory despite the hosts going ahead through Isaac George’s 16th-minute goal. Nyima Nwagua’s 35th-minute goal drew Rivers level before Naibe Akpesiri gave them the lead just before the break. The win ensured United now have 10 points from three wins and a draw after playing four games. Enyimba 3-0 Kwara United Enyimba FC ran riot against Kwara United to register a 3-0 victory and move into third place in Group A. Chukwuemeka Obioma’s brace and Ademola Adebambo’s first-half strike sealed the victory for the People’s Elephants. Shooting Stars 1-0 El Kanemi Warriors Shooting Stars recorded their first win of the season with a slim one-goal victory over the Warriors at the Lekan Salami Stadium. Samuel Tiza’s late winner in the 78th minute was the vital difference in the game. Sunshine Stars 1-0 Abia Warriors Samson Oladapo’s goal helped Sunshine secure their first win of the season against Abia Warriors. Akwa United 1-0 Plateau United Akwa United managed a tight 1-0 over Plateau United in Uyo. James Ajoko’s 82nd minute cemented three points for the home team. Lobi Stars 3-0 Bayelsa United Lobi whitewashed Bayelsa United 3-0 in Markurdi to go second in Group B. Other results: Nasarawa United, Enugu Rangers and Doma United all held on for important away draws in their respective games against Gombe United, Niger Tornadoes and Wikki Tourists.