Albert Bassey, governorship candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP) in Akwa Ibom, says his vision is to make the state a pacesetter in Nigeria. Bassey said this at a recent media  briefing, where he unveiled his manifesto. The YPP candidate said if elected, his administration will use the state’s resources to generate jobs and create a society where hunger, deprivation, and poverty will no longer be used as tools for political emasculation and oppression. He said his plans for the state are anchored on five strategic pillars of economic prosperity, security, environment, and tourism; agriculture and rural development; education, health, and social services, and administrative reforms and completion of projects. ENSURE ECONOMIC PROSPERITY IN FOUR YEARS Bassey said if elected, his administration will quickly reverse the trend of poverty by repositioning the state. He said with the state’s debt profile and level of unemployment, the situation does not reflect what a state receiving the second-highest monthly allocation from the federation account should portray. “My administration will close the gaps resulting from misplaced policies and reverse the trend by 30 percent in the next four years,” he said. He said he will address these issues by launching a N50 billion prosperity trust fund with 50 percent contributed by the state government to encourage entrepreneurship at single-digit interest rate to MSMEs through cooperative societies He added that his administration will identify and document the extremely poor for poverty alleviation programmes, and prioritise investment in wealth creation activities in areas with high employment potentials. ‘ESTABLISH SECURITY TRUST FUND TO TACKLE INSECURITY’ Bassey said Akwa Ibom is currently facing security challenges, adding that his administration will establish a state security trust fund and a neighbourhood security scheme to complement the conventional security agencies. He added that security and other related services in the state capital and major cities and communities will be digitalised for effective security. ‘DEVELOP THE TOURISM SECTOR’ The YPP candidate said the state has enormous tourism potential, but over the years, substantial benefits have not accrued from this sector. He said his administration will establish a sustainable framework for the development of the sector in the following areas: agriculture, sports, culture, medicine, education, and industry. He said he will identify and prioritise viable tourism centers and historical sites for development, and promote annual cultural festivals in the state. ‘MODERNISE AND COMMERCIALISE AGRICULTURE’ Bassey said he will revitalise abandoned model farms across the state, and establish farm settlements using a sustainable public-private partnership (PPP) model. He added that his administration will provide credit facilities and inputs to farmers, and facilitate massive production of rice for local consumption and export. ‘INCREASE BUDGETARY ALLOCATION FOR EDUCATION’ Bassey, who said the enrollment figures in public schools have decreased, added that to revive the sector, he will increase budgetary provision, enhance staff/student ratio for quality output, and develop a sustainable model for effective monitoring and performance evaluation. He said teachers will be retrained at the primary and secondary levels, while special technical colleges will be revitalised with state-of-the-art facilities to become technology incubation centres for the training of skilled-based manpower. ‘FREE MEDICAL HEALTHCARE ‘ On health, Bassey said there is an urgent need for revitalisation of the primary health sector to complement the gains recorded in the secondary health system. He said his administration will develop sustainable tertiary health facilities and institute health insurance scheme in the state. He added that if elected, he will provide free and quality healthcare for pregnant women, children below the age of five, and elderly citizens above 70 years of age.