There is a brewing controversy over an alleged row between Aisha Bichi, wife of Yusuf Bichi, director-general of the Department of State Services (DSS),  and Abba Kabir Yusuf, governorship candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in Kano. Bichi’s wife is alleged to have ordered the arrest of the governorship candidate at the Kano airport, although TheCable is yet to independently confirm the claim. The motorcade of the NNPP governorship candidate was said to have caused a gridlock around the entrance of the VIP lounge of the Kano airport, which delayed Bichi’s wife from gaining entrance. The NNPP governorship candidate and Bichi’s wife were both headed to Abuja. The incident reportedly led to an altercation with resulted in the alleged detention of Yusuf by DSS operatives and the involvement of the police. Thereafter, Bichi’s wife was said to have boarded her flight headed for the federal capital territory (FCT). Efforts to get the police and the gubernatorial candidate’s team to provide clarity on the matter were not successful. CLAIM IS FALSE, SAYS SON However, Abba Yusuf Bichi, son of the DSS DG, said his mother never ordered the governorship candidate’s arrest. In a Twitter post on Monday, he alleged that the NNPP governorship candidate ordered his “goons” to get violent even after his mother pleaded with him to allow her to gain access to the VIP lounge. What really happened between the wife of the Dg DSS and abba gida gida pic.twitter.com/z8QmKyt5hL — Abba Yusuf Bichi (@abba_yusufbichi) January 9, 2023  “The DSS agents decided to make entry again into the airport then abba Gida gida who was in his car decided to come down from his car and started harassing the DSS agents and ordered his goons to be violent, while all of this was happening the wife of the DG DSS came down from her car and pleaded with abba Gida gida to let it go, which he turned on the wife of the DG and started raining insults on her,” he said. “One of his goons attempted to go after the wife of the DG… that was when the DSS agents attached to her neutralized him which resulted in his injuries.” The DSS had earlier released a statement noting that politicians and “disgruntled elements” within and outside government were on a mission to smear the image of the agency’s DG.