The New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) says it has reasons to take the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to court over “disagreements” involving nomination of candidates. In October, the party, which has Rabiu Kwankwaso, a former governor of Kano, as its presidential candidate, sued the electoral commission for refusing to accept the replacement of Ibrahim Shekarau, a serving senator. Shekarau defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) following irreconcilable differences with Kwankwaso. While he was in the NNPP, Shekarau secured the senatorial ticket for Kano central and INEC had listed him as the party’s candidate for the 2023 elections. Addressing a media briefing in Abuja on Wednesday, Rufa’i Alkali, national chairman of the NNPP, said INEC should “comply with the orders expeditiously delivered by the courts to further build up confidence of the political parties and general public in the commission’s unflinching and unwavering commitment to conducting free, fair, and credible election”. “Our great party, NNPP, wishes to use this medium to express our appreciation and gratitude to the Nigerian judiciary for being the last bastion of hope for the people and a pillar of democracy and democratic processes, particularly leading to the 2023 general election,” Alkali said. “We have invited you members of the fourth estate of the realm to brief you on activities involving our party, NNPP, especially our court matters with INEC. “Our party has reasons to take INEC to court over disagreements on the issue of uploading and submission of names of some of our candidates. “We appreciate the enormity of the assignments before INEC. We, however, believe the commission should continue to implement court rulings, the better for our country. “We want to use this opportunity to assure Professor Mahmood Yakubu of our confidence in him and his commission to deliver a sound election that will stand the test of time. We, therefore, pledge our unflinching support for him and INEC.”