The government of Cape Verde has announced its intention to rename its national stadium after Pele, the late Brazilian football legend. Jose Ulisses Correia e Silva, the country’s prime minister, broke the news in a post on Facebook on Wednesday. Last week, Pele, fondly nicknamed the “king of football”, passed away after battling colon cancer. Gianni Infantino, the FIFA president, on Monday, called on countries around the world to name one of their stadiums after the three-time World Cup winner. Cape Verde is set to become the first nation to heed the call from FIFA. In the post, Correia e Silva said Estádio da Várzea located in Praia, the country’s capital, will be named “Pele Stadium”. He added that FIFA is in the loop of the development and hopes other countries follow. “Cape Verde and Brazil have a history and culture that go hand in hand, considering that they are two brother countries, connected by language and by very similar identities,” the prime minister said. Stadium in Cape Verde to be renamed after Pele “And with the physical disappearance of Edson Arantes de Nascimento, King Pelé, a born Brazilian citizen, who early became a global figure, and icon of the masses proved that sport has the power to unite the world, now we desire to praise him. “Pelé was and will always be a reference in Brazil and all the rest of the world, being an idol that connects several generations. “As tribute and recognition to this figure that makes us all great, I express my intention to name our national stadium, “Pele Stadium”, an initiative that I believe several countries around the world will follow us. “We have already communicated to FIFA our intention because it was that institution launching the challenge and we hope to be able to soon concretize this symbolic act.” Pele was laid to rest on Tuesday following a private funeral at the Necropole Ecumenica Memorial Cemetery in the city of Santos, Brazil. Before his final internment, a 24-hour wake was held in honour of the late football legend. Mourners lined the streets as Pele’s body was transported in a black coffin around the city before moving him to his final resting place.