Usman Baba, the inspector-general of police (IGP), has begun the distribution of N13 billion as compensation to injured officers and families of officers who died in the line of duty. The inspector-general of police handed cheques to some family members of deceased officers on Thursday. Speaking during the presentation, Baba said President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the sum of N13,628,535,580 for outstanding claims of 6,184 police officers. He urged the families of the deceased officers to make judicious use of the money, adding that no amount of money can equate to the lives lost. “On my assumption in office in April 2021, my attention was drawn to this development. Consequently, an urgent representation was made to President Muhammadu Buhari requesting the release of funds to enable us to pay all outstanding claims to the families of deceased police officers,” he said. “It was with great relief that Mr. President appreciated my representation and graciously approved the release of the sum of N13,628,535,580 to pay the backlog of a total of 6,184 personnel that had previously fallen under the uninsured/uncovered periods of group life assurance and group personal accident insurance scheme, covering from the year 2012 to 2020. “While sympathising with the families of the deceased officers, knowing that nothing will bring back their loved ones, I urge you all to judiciously utilise these funds in training your children and rest assured that the force under my leadership will continue to do more in advancing your welfare interests and that of serving personnel. “It is in furtherance to this that following my approval, the Nigeria Police Force has incorporated the Nigeria police insurance company. As soon as the practice licence is granted, the company will be solely responsible for all insurance-related issues concerning the force. “It should be noted that the Nigeria police institution is the single largest agency in this country for purpose of insurance contributions, yet, we have not been maximising this strength as it has been third-party insurance companies that have been responsible for processing our claims. “With this initiative, we will be wholly responsible for our insurance needs and it is my conviction that this will ease the insurance processing of personnel.”