The All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council has accused Naja’atu Muhammad, a former chieftain of the party, of being a mole. On Saturday, Muhammad, a former senator representing Kano central, said she has resigned from the ruling party and has quit partisan politics. The politician said she was committed to supporting individuals truly interested in addressing the root causes of Nigeria’s challenges. “Quitting party politics at this point in time is one of such steps,” she had said in a statement. “We all recognise that Nigeria is facing many challenges, including insecurity, poverty, inequality, and lack of access to basic services.” Hours later Muhammad was seen with Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), fuelling speculation that she had switched camps. In a statement on Tuesday, Mahmud Jega, adviser public affairs in the council, said Muhammad was sacked before her “hasty” resignation as a director of civil society organisation (CSO) in the council. “She was sacked for incompetence, quarrelsomeness and after being uncovered to be a mole planted in our winning campaign in order to leak sensitive information to our desperate opponents,” Jega said. “Although she deceived the gullible public by claiming that she resigned, her sack letter with ignominy from the campaign and the party had just arrived at her desk. “Her desperate, fact-free, machination-filled, and imaginary utterances since her sack from the campaign have proved beyond doubt that she was unfit to serve in the first place until it was discovered that she was actually a mole. “Not being a medical doctor but whose profession in the last three decades was as a political jobber and expert name-dropper, she nevertheless issued a pseudo-medical report on our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, after a brief meeting in London. “Within a day, pictures surfaced in the media showing her meeting with the PDP presidential candidate and declaring her support for him.”