Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), says he is the right man to guide Nigeria to recovery. Obi, in an article published by The Economist on Wednesday, said he and Datti Baba-Ahmed, his running mate, are committed to providing the kind of leadership that Nigerians yearn for. The LP candidate said if elected, his administration will tackle insecurity, boost the country’s economy, provide job opportunities for youths, improve electricity and attract foreign investment into the country. “Nigeria witnessed several events last year that shook it to the core. These included militia attacks, abductions and extrajudicial killings,” Obi said. “Our federal government has failed to secure the country, protect our economy and secure the future of our youth. “With an estimated population of 217m sitting at the heart of Africa, a dominant youthful population made up of the brightest and bravest in the world, unlimited capacity for economic growth and the potential to lead Africa, Nigeria is worth saving. And I believe I am the right person to guide it to recovery. “In a matter of days, Nigerians will be voting for their next president, who will be tasked with the responsibility of steering the country out of its current devastating predicament. “We must persuade our brightest young people not to leave the country by opening up the economy, promoting privatisation and creating entrepreneurial opportunities. “We must tackle our security challenges through a holistic approach in four key areas: digital security, economic security, physical security and social security. “My running mate, Datti Baba-Ahmed, and I are committed to providing the kind of leadership that Nigerians yearn for: leadership that believes in the dignity of every Nigerian; leadership with the moral fibre and courage to confront the cabals holding the country hostage; leadership with a well-intentioned strategy for delivering our vision for a united Nigeria that works for all and leaves nobody behind. “Nothing gives us more hope of this possibility than the organic movement for a new Nigeria, driven by its young people, who say that they are inspired by my candidacy and message of possibilities. They call themselves the Obidients, and I am their biggest admirer.”