Christian Atsu, Black Stars of Ghana winger, has reportedly been found alive hours after he was trapped in the earthquake across south-eastern Turkey and northern Syria. Atsu, who plays for Turkey’s Hatayspor, was declared missing on Monday after the tremor ravaged his home in the Kahramanmaras, the city where the club is based. The 31-year-old was trapped under the rubble alongside Taner Savut, Hatayspor’s sporting director. Atsu’s whereabouts had since elicited intense reactions in the global football landscape, with many expressing concerns over his safety. But speaking with Radyo Gol, the Turkish radio, on Tuesday, Mustafa Ozat, Hatayspor’s spokesperson, said Atsu has been found alive but was injured. It is understood that the former Chelsea and Newcastle United star is currently undergoing medical treatment at an undisclosed hospital. Ozat added that the club’s sporting director, however, remains missing as of the time of this report. “Christian Atsu was removed injured. Our sporting director, Taner Savut, is unfortunately still under the rubble. Hawaii was very impressed. We are coming towards the end of the most dangerous hours,” he said. Doç. Dr. Hatayspor Yöneticisi Mustafa Özat: “Christian Atsu yaralı olarak çıkarıldı. Sportif direktörümüz Taner Savut, maalesef hala enkaz altında. Hatay çok etkilendi. En tehlikeli saatlerin sonuna doğru geliyoruz."@Emre_Tilev @cihandisli — Radyo Gol (@radyogol) February 7, 2023  Saddick Adams, the Ghanaian sports journalist, also confirmed the development in a Twitter post. I’m still in contact with Christian Atsu’s management. A teammate of Atsu has confirmed to them, the player has been found and taken to the hospital. They expect an official statement from his club soon. Prayers still with him and everyone. Trust God he is safe  pic.twitter.com/J9GFZyac2O — Saddick Adams (@SaddickAdams) February 6, 2023  About 1,700 victims were said to have died from the earthquake while the World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates the figure could hit 20,000 in the coming days.