Lai Mohammed, minister of information, says there has been no “threat” in Abuja, the country’s capital, since the travel advisories issued by the United Kingdom and United States. Speaking on Monday at the 25th edition of the President Muhammadu  Buhari (PMB) scorecard series, Mohammed warned foreign countries to stop issuing “frivolous” travel advisories. BACKGROUND On October 23, 2022, the UK warned of an increased threat of terrorist attack in the FCT, and urged its citizens to stay alert and avoid visits to public places in the area. The UK also restricted access to the British High Commission in Abuja Days later, the UK warned British nationals to avoid non-essential travel to Abuja. On October 25, 2022, the US authorised the evacuation of “non-emergency” employees and their family members in Nigeria over “heightened risk of terrorist attacks”. Reacting to the advisories, the federal government criticised the US and UK for issuing the terror alerts without informing local authorities. LAI COMMENDS SECURITY AGENCIES FOR KEEPING COUNTRY SAFE Mohammed said residents of Abuja have been going about their businesses without any threat since the travel advisories. Recounting the “panic” created by the advisories, the information minister said some Americans reportedly left the country over the warning. He commended the security agencies for their sacrifices to keep the country safe amid the terror alerts. “Let me use this occasion to commend our security agencies for their sacrifices to keep us safe,” he said. “Recall, ladies and gentlemen, that in October 2022, the US and UK embassies in Nigeria issued travel advisories warning their citizens to avoid Abuja due to the risk of a terrorist attack. “This advisory created much panic in the country. As a matter of fact, a number of Americans were reported to have fled Abuja in the wake of the warning. “Recall also that in our reaction to the advisory, we reassured Nigerians and non-Nigerians living in the country of their safety and noted that our security agencies are on top of the matter. “Almost three months after the frivolous advisory, residents of Abuja have been going about their businesses without any threat. “It is this light that we want to, once again, commend our gallant troops, the police, the intelligence agencies, and all other security agencies for their commitment and sacrifice to keep our country safe. “We also call on Nigerians to continue to support the security agencies as they carry out their onerous task, while echoing Mr. President’s call on Western countries to stop issuing frivolous travel advisories on Nigeria.”