Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says the “PDP has brought us shame” comment by Iyorchia Ayu, the chairperson of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), shows he is working against the party. Speaking on Thursday at the party’s presidential campaign rally in Kano state, Ayu had said: “PDP has brought us shame”, but after a few seconds, he corrected himself and said “APC”. Reacting to the development on Friday at the flag-off rally of the Rivers PDP campaign council in Eleme LGA, Wike said the national leadership under Ayu is bringing shame on the party. “When you see undertakers, you will see those who came to kill this party. But the party will not die; they will die first. I didn’t know they are wicked to this party. No wonder they left this party and joined ACN before,” he said. “He (Ayu) said they will not allow PDP to be in power. Is that a good chairman? Is that not anti-party? Is the chairman not doing anti-party? Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. For us in Rivers state, our own party is a good party. Our own is a party that has done Rivers state well.” On the lingering cash scarcity in the country, Wike said as an opposition party, the PDP should stand by the masses who are victims of the policy. “This is supposed to be an opposition party; is it not? A party that is supposed to identify with the masses. This is a party that is saying the ruling party is not doing well. It is not? It means that for anything that affects the masses, we must be in support of the masses,” he said. “Are you happy that you have money in the bank and you can’t get your money? Will you be happy? Are you happy?. “Since the central bank came with this madness, is it not affecting you? But you see my problem, instead of our party identifying with the masses, the leadership of the party at the national level is now saying they are happy with what the central bank is doing. Is that good? “Instead of us identifying with the masses who are suffering, you’re saying that you are happy with the policy that the central bank and the cabal brought that is making us suffer. You’re saying that it is good. We in Rivers state, we will not support it.”