The coalition for good governance, a non-governmental organisation, has endorsed Peter Obi, the standard bearer of the Labour Party (LP). Okey Chukwendu, national coordinator of the coalition which comprises former national chairmen of political parties and former presidential candidates, announced the development in a statement on Monday. Chukwendu said Peter Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed, his running mate, “are the most credible, capable, and qualified candidates among the contestants vying for the seat of the president in the forthcoming election”. “The Coalition for Good Governance as a body of Professionals in the political terrain wishes to advise Nigerians to reject those who peddle unnecessary blackmail on the candidacy of Mr Peter Obi,” the statement reads. “Mr Peter Obi is a nationalist, and a true Nigerian. He is decent, humble, credible, capable, competent, and compassionate in character. Mr Peter Obi as Governor of Anambra State rejected billions of Naira and houses as compensation from Anambra State Government. “It is on record that Mr Peter Obi left over 90billion Naira in the state coffers at the end of his tenure, a record that has been unmatched by any governor in Nigeria. We are all aware of contestants whose fraudulent activities, Godfatherism and drug-related records are unacceptable for the new Nigerian that we desire. “Their shamelessness has led to their desire to still contest and test our gullibility with their illegally acquired wealth which Nigerians must resist. “As Nigerians and politicians that we are, we will not sit on the fence to watch another subversion of our resources to individuals and their cronies which is the antecedents of some of the contestants now desperate for the Presidency. “Fellow Nigerians, because we are not in the payroll of anyone, we are responsible for what we say today, we therefore urge you all to reject thieves and dictators in sheep cloths, reject drug barons and those who have no respect for our diversity and secularism and vote for Mr Peter Gregory Obi and Datti Baba-Ahmed of the Labour Party so that together our Nation can rise from consistent economic failure to economic surplus and together, a new Nation bound in freedom and surplus is born.”