Ayo Fayose, former governor of Ekiti, says the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has no “moral right” to claim patriotism. He said this on Monday in a series of posts on his Twitter handle, hours after Dino Melaye, a spokesperson of the PDP presidential campaign council, protested at the national collation centre in Abuja over the results of the presidential election as announced by states. Melaye had said “we are Nigerians and we will defend our rights”, while alleging that there were discrepancies in the results being announced in Abuja and what was recorded at polling units across the country. In his post, Fayose commended Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP), and criticised the PDP for failing to take steps to address the crisis in the party which led to the setup of the G5 group. “I commend the courage and resilience the Labour Party (LP) Presidential candidate HE. Peter Obi, for his uncommon and unprecedented outing and outcome of this election. It is not unexpected going by support he enjoys with Nigerians,” the post reads. “However, I cannot but berate the PDP which has no moral right to cry foul.
Those handling the party obviously knew this was going to be the outcome and possibly the end of their arrogance and sense of entitlement, especially bearing in mind they were the 2015 traitors. “In life, they say what goes round comes round. Beyond this, does the PDP [want] to win an election with a fractured party that it is now? Kwankanso, Obi, etc were driven out of the party and they claimed they can win without the G5 Governors. “‘Almighty’ Iyorchia Ayu, the National Chairman, even lost his Ward and Local Government to another party after cashing out like a man struck and stock with poverty. As it is now, PDP turning around to cry foul has no place with Nigerians. Not at all. “Most importantly, election is a process and those not satisfied can vent their anger in court. It is therefore time to allow Nigeria and Nigerians to move on.
If you think Nigerians loves or still want PDP as alternative, by now the message should be instructive. “The present managers of the PDP need to be told that the sympathy of Nigerians is not for the party. They should stop hiding under Peter Obi’s LP to pretend to have a sense of patriotism that they don’t have. “Therefore, no sense of comradeship with Obi will work. After all, they knew his potentials, yet, he was not deemed fit for the party’s ticket and he was eased out. Today, he has retired all of them. “Our candidate, H.E. Atiku Abubakar (aka ‘Atiku is coming’) should accept defeat in maturity and retire peacefully to Dubai. At this juncture, may I say good night and goodbye to all you represent.” Our candidate, H.E. Atiku Abubakar (aka ‘Atiku is coming’) should accept defeat in maturity and retire peacefully to Dubai.
At this juncture, may I say good night and good bye to all you represent. — Peter Ayodele Fayose (@GovAyoFayose) February 27, 2023 