Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) says it has set up its digital and technology products advisory panel as part of efforts to advance on its digital transformation agenda. The panel would provide a forum for the exchange to interact with the capital market community and the financial technology (fintech) ecosystem to enhance and increase NGX’s digital product offerings. The exchange disclosed this on Tuesday, in a statement signed by Clifford Akpolo, its head of marketing and corporate communications. NGX said members appointed to the panel include: Tope Kola-Oyeneyin (McKinsey); Iyin Aboyeji (Future Africa); Kola Aina (Ventures Platform); Idris Saliu (Ceviant); Fope Adelowo (Helios Group); Richmond Bassey (Bamboo); Tayo Oviosu (Paga); Wale Ayeni (International Finance Corporation); Ahmad Zuaiter (Jadara Capital Partners LLC) and Adedeji Olowe (LendsQr). The organisation said the panel will be responsible for providing insight into product innovation and proposing ways to increase technology listings on NGX. It is also obligated to recommend ways to boost data and digital market liquidity; provide thought leadership by developing whitepapers, creating frameworks and making recommendations; and a host of advisory matters like market trends, risks and sentiments. NGX said it recognises the potential of diverse viewpoints and aims to leverage the extensive networks of experts across the budding technology ecosystem and the capital market in designing breakthrough frameworks to position itself for global competitiveness. In December 2022, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved the rules for listing on the NGX technology board. According to the exchange, the creation of the committee is part of a continuous process to further scale the capacities of NGX in the technology ecosystem. Speaking on the establishment of the panel, Olufemi Oyenuga, NGX’s chief digital officer, said the group would leverage technology and innovation in its operations. “Technology and innovation are the driving forces of progress, and at NGX we are committed to leveraging both to transform the exchange into a leading force of product development in the capital market,” Oyenuga said. “With the establishment of the committee, we are poised to explore new frontiers, pool groundbreaking ideas and strategies, unlock exciting opportunities for the future, addressing creativity, innovation and sustainability.”