The All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council says the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP) have ganged up to disrupt the country’s 24-year democratic journey. The two opposition parties had called for the cancellation of the ongoing presidential election result collation. They argued the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is collating results that were not electronically transmitted from the polling units across the country. Speaking on Tuesday at a media briefing in Abuja, Dele Alake, the campaign council’s media adviser, said they have always suspected that PDP and LP are the same. “You must also be aware of the gang-up by the PDP and Labour Party, whose agents walked out of the national collation centre in Abuja on Monday,” Alake said. “Today, they continued their conspiracy to truncate our 24-year democratic journey by raising unfounded allegations against INEC, casting aspersions on the whole electoral process, forgetting the process had handed them unexpected victories in some states. “We have always suspected that the Labour Party and PDP are the same, only divided by individual inordinate ambition. “We want to remind them that election is a process like pregnancy. Like a pregnancy that has reached full term, it cannot be aborted. We are not in 1993 when June 12 was aborted by similar forces. It is too late to do so.” He also said former President Olusegun Obasanjo has no right to call for the cancellation of election results. “We consider Obasanjo’s failed attempt to scuttle the process through his unsolicited advice to President Muhammadu Buhari to cancel the election as part of the grand orchestration of many evil plots to truncate democracy in Nigeria,” Alake said. “The integrity of the electoral process has been attested to by the international observers such as the Commonwealth, ECOWAS, European Union, and African Union observer missions who adjudged the election as peaceful, free and fair whilst they identified areas of logistical improvements INEC should take into consideration in future elections. “As you are well aware, the election was replete with drama.”