The police command in Ogun says it has arrested two suspects for allegedly purchasing the car of Kehinde and Bukola Fatinoye, the couple recently murdered in the state. Abimbola Oyeyemi, the Ogun police spokesperson, announced the arrest of the suspects in a statement on Tuesday. The police identified the suspects as Azeez Usman and Owolaja Aanuoluwapo. BACKGROUND On January 1, the couple was found dead at their residence in Ibara government reservation area (GRA) in Abeokuta, the state capital. The incident was said to have happened shortly after the couple — former employees of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), respectively — returned from a church service to usher in the new year. The building belonging to the couple was also set ablaze, while Oreoluwa, their son, and another person were reportedly kidnapped. Days later, Oreoluwa’s body was found floating in a river along Adigbe-Obada road in Abeokuta. On February 10, the police arrested Lekan Adekanbi, the couple’s driver, Ahmed Odetola, and Waheed Adeniji, in connection with the murder. Adekanbi reportedly confessed to masterminding the murder of the couple because they refused to increase his salary and rejected a loan request. ‘CAR SOLD FOR N150,000’ Giving details on the couple’s car, the Ogun police spokesperson said after the couple’s son was dumped inside the Ogun river, the suspects parked the Hyundai car at the Oke Ata area of Abeokuta. Oyeyemi said the suspects — Akekanbi, Odetola, and Adeniji — contacted Aanuoluwapo to get the car. Aanuoluwapo then reportedly drove the car to Usman’s workshop after which the car was sold off in parts. “The two suspects, Azeez Usman and Owolaja Aanuoluwapo, were arrested at different locations in the state following the confession of the earlier arrested suspects who informed the police that the car was sold to Azeez Usman at a rate of N150,000,” the spokesperson said. “After killing the couple, the suspects got hold of their son Oreoluwa and their adopted child, Felix Olorunyomi, tied them with rope and put them in the booth of the Hyundai car with which they drove them to Ogun river bridge at Adigbe area, where they threw them into the river. “The suspects later parked the car somewhere in Oke Ata area of Abeokuta, but later contacted Owolaja Aanuoluwapo who went there and drove the vehicle to Azeez Usman’s workshop where the car was butchered into pieces and sold in parts. “Police investigation revealed that the two suspects were duly informed that the car was stolen, but they went ahead and bought it at the rate of N150,000.”