The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) says it has arraigned Anthony Damisa, an officer with the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Niger state command, over alleged certificate forgery. According to a statement issued on Thursday by Azuka Ogugua, ICPC spokesperson, Damisa was arraigned on Wednesday before M.E. Anenih, judge of the federal capital territory (FCT) high court. In suit number CR/348/2022 filed before the court, the NSCDC officer is accused of using a forged bachelor of science (BSc) degree certificate in public administration from Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUST) and a national diploma certificate in general agriculture from the College of Agriculture, Yandev, Benue state, to “seek higher placement in the corps”. “ICPC also informed the Court of how investigation activities revealed that the certificates presented by the defendant to his employer did not emanate from the claimed institutions,” the statement reads. “The Commission in a 4-count charge is further accusing the defendant of making a false statement to officers of ICPC while on their official duties. “His offences are contrary to Section 366, and punishable under Section 364 of the Penal Code Act, Cap 89, Laws of the FCT and Section 25 of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000. “When the charges were read to him, the accused person entered a ‘Not Guilty’ plea, and his counsel Ibrahim Alhassan thereafter raised a bail application on behalf of his client which was not opposed by the prosecution counsel, Ebiye Oglafa. “The accused person was then admitted to bail in the sum of Two Million Naira (N2,000,000) and a surety in like sum who must be a civil servant not below grade level 10. “He was also ordered to deposit either his International Passport or Driver’s Licence as well as two passport photographs.” The ICPC spokesperson added that the matter has been adjourned till April 4 for the commencement of the trial.