BY FELIX DOHERTY The past few days have unravelled a new dimension to the political play in Nigeria. It almost feels like a scene from the movies. However, if anyone is surprised, maybe you haven’t been following Naija’s brand of politics. Millions of students wasted away at home for eight months during the strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU); thousands of people spent compulsory, unwanted time within the cold dens of kidnappers; food prices rose by over 100 percent; floods, which were foretold, swept homes, dreams, and livelihoods away; and don’t get us started on the craziness of the price hike in petrol and diesel and the resultant consequences. And through these experiences, Nigerians have pushed forth, trudging wearily, embracing brief moments of intentional happiness so we don’t go insane, burdened by the heavy load of political representatives who are all talk and no bite. Then, all of a sudden, months before the present administration will leave office, the newest stress in town is scarcity of naira notes, coming after a very stressful December considering the high prices of food items, hike in transport fare, petrol’s sudden disappearance, and continued attacks by bandits. And all of a sudden, politicians now remember there are “poor masses facing hardship”. Hilarious to say the least! But before we laugh our worries off, is it really as unprecedented as assumed? Hardly! It’s days to the general election and it doesn’t take rocket science to understand the sudden interest in the masses and the daily doses of statements, comments, and tongue-in-cheek outbursts. Dear Nigerians, now is not the time to be blindsided by this intra-political game couched within the cloak of instant-noodles love even though we’re in the month of love. Take another look at campaign rallies, the smiles, crisp outfits, and dance-filled jokes, and know that it is time to take a stand. Two sides of a coin still point to the same coin! Doherty can be reached via dohertyfelix002@gmail.com