Journalists have been advised to observe safety measures during the coverage of the forthcoming elections. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed February 25 for the conduct of presidential and national assembly elections. Also, on March 11, governorship and state assembly elections will be conducted. Most media platforms will deploy journalists to 36 states and the federal capital territory (FCT) to observe and report the elections. The Community to Protect Journalists (CPJ), a non-profit organisation that promotes press freedom worldwide, in a report, emphasised the need for safety for journalists covering the elections. CPJ interviewed nine journalists in Nigeria on their security concerns ahead of the polls and how reporters could address threats. WHAT JOURNALISTS SAID ABOUT SECURITY TIPS Yusuf Anka, a freelance journalist who has reported extensively on pervasive banditry in Nigeria’s northwestern Zamfara state, advised journalists to understand the security dynamics of the northern region of the country. Anka said journalists should be careful about the choices of hotels and drivers. “Make careful choices of hotels and drivers. Have one person who is only a call away if you have an emergency. There are more abductions at night than day,” he said. Bunmi Yekini, a producer with Radio Now 95.3 FM in Lagos, said journalists should have the emergency phone number of security agencies in their areas of coverage. “Make sure your phone is constantly charged, have a power bank, and enough airtime. A designated car is very important; there will be no commercial vehicles. Get to know the area boys [people who live in the area and know the streets intimately]. They can save the day for you,” she said. Abdulaziz Abdulaziz, a former deputy general editor of Daily Trust newspaper, said local knowledge is necessary to maintain safety. “Do not be ostentatious, dress in a flashy way, or wear something that is easily identifiable with a group of people, or would mark you as being a stranger,” Abdulaziz said. Agba Jalingo, the publisher of the CrossRiverWatch news, said it is risky for journalists to carry a visible camera, adding small gadgets are suitable.