Technology experts have advised online content creators, and digital specialists to collaborate as well as leverage opportunities in the sector in order to contribute to Nigeria’s economy. The experts spoke at the AfricaNXT 2023 event organised by AT3 Resources in Lagos on Tuesday. The event focused on the optimisation of technology to create prosperity while highlighting the numerous opportunities for creators to develop alternate sources of income. Tosin Adefeko, founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of AT3 Resources, said there was a need for creators to go beyond passion and get involved in the creation of wealth for the economy. “Before the advent of the creator economy, many of today’s creators would have been unemployed; creators for many years just engaged in their passions; now people can unlock their creative potential and give it value,” Adefeko said. “As the country seeks to diversify its economy away from the dependency on oil revenues, we are simply excited to be able to bring this conversation to the front burner at AfricaNXT 2023.” Speaking during the panel sessions, Chinwe Egwin, chief economist at Coronation Merchant Bank, said the creator economy is an evolving concept that will assist to boost job creation in Nigeria if properly harnessed. Egwin added that the sector will likely compete with the oil industry. “The creator economy is borderless and creators need to seize the opportunities out there to promote their craft. However, to avail themselves of the opportunities, creators must ensure that they build the right structures required for their business to thrive,” she said. Also present at the event as a panelist, Frank iTom, the creative director of Frank iTom Creatives, spoke on how content creators can stay ahead of the trends that will continue to shape the creator ecosystem. He believes that creators need to explore new tools, “carve a niche that sets them apart and remain consistent in their craft”. Buttressing the above view, Oluwatobi Ayeni, a tech creator, said there are endless opportunities creators can tap into especially with current advancements technology. “As a matter of fact, artificial intelligence (AI) is beginning to contribute significantly to the creator economy by helping creators create, edit and distribute content online,” she said. “The possibilities are endless and looking at what the future holds, there will be an increase in competition and strict regulations, so the best time to start creating is now.” Highlighting the myriad of opportunities that abound for potential and existing creators across Africa, Oluwasola Obagbemi, corporate communications manager of Anglophone West Africa, Meta, said the digital space is constantly changing, and as such, content creators must also evolve. He said creators can explore the Metaverse platform to create amazing content, adding that it opens doors to several opportunities for creators to learn and collaborate. “Meta has created resources that will enable creators to improve and monetise their content online,” Obagbemi said.