The Delta government says it will monitor the distribution of petrol from the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited delivery points to outlets in the state. The state government, on Thursday, said the mechanism put in place will ensure that the product is available at fair prices. In a statement by Patrick Ukah, secretary to the state government (SSG), dated February 1, the state also lamented the hike in the price per litre of petrol. “The Delta state government wishes to express its very deep concern over the stress and strains that Deltans at large are suffering due to some current national challenges especially scarcity of premium motor spirit (PMS),” the statement reads. “The scarcity has been pervasive across the state and has paralysed a number of businesses including that of many government departments, thereby bringing severe hardship to Deltans. It is indeed very sad to note that in many places the product is selling for as much as N1,000.00 (one thousand naira) per liter. “In the effort to ensure the product’s availability as well as its appropriate pricing, government has decided to take measures to monitor its distribution from the point of delivery by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation to the various discharge outlets across the state as a matter of urgency.” In this regard, the state government said a 12-member product monitoring team has been constituted. Members of the team include representatives of the commissioner for information, police, Department of State Services (DSS), army, navy, and Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). Other members include representatives of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), tanker drivers union, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), and civil society organisations (CSOs). The state government said Emman Amgbaduba, Delta commissioner for oil and gas, will serve as the committee chair, while the permanent secretary, oil and gas, will serve as secretary of the team. “We are confident that the effectiveness of its actions will become noticeable very shortly,” Ukah added. “In the meantime, the state government wishes to appeal to the major marketers to continue to show empathy over the sufferings of fellow citizens and to do their utmost to ensure best practices in the product’s delivery as the present circumstances warrant. “In particular, we urge them to extend their supplies beyond their affiliates to other independent marketers, so as to ensure wider circulation of the product across the state. “Finally, while the state government expresses its gratitude to all Deltans for the resilience that has been demonstrated in these trying times, we wish to appeal that no one should try to exploit the situation by stirring up violence for selfish gains.” In January, the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) apprehended two persons for product diversion in the state.