Social media posts have claimed that former president Olusegun Obasanjo, showed up at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) collation centre in Abuja with original result sheets. Breaking News: Obasanjo storms INEC collection center in Abuja with the real results of all the 36 state and FTC INEC chairman was in shock when Obasanjo showed up in Abuja INEC collect with 2023 original result sheet for all States, how Obasanjo got the result and…. Moro wai pic.twitter.com/RD0XnUk9BC — Onua Captain Smartᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠᅠ (@OnuaSmart) February 26, 2023  HOW TRUE PLEASE? Breaking News: Obasanjo storms INEC collection center in Abuja with the real results of all the 36 state and FTCINEC chairman was in shock when Obasanjo showed up in Abuja INEC collect with 2023 original result sheet for all States, how Obasanjo got the result pic.twitter.com/VujGNYVZDk — Netizens9ja  (@Netizens9ja) February 26, 2023   “Breaking News: Obasanjo storms INEC collection center in Abuja with the real results of all the 36 state and FTC INEC chairman was in shock when Obasanjo showed up in Abuja INEC collect with 2023 original result sheet for all States…” The message also found its way to WhatsApp, the instant messaging application.  But did Obasanjo show up at the INEC collation centre with the 2023 original result sheet for all states? VERIFICATION TheCable subjected one of the pictures used in the post to a Google reverse image search, which revealed that it has been existing since January 2020, when Seyi Makinde, governor of Oyo state, visited Obasanjo at his Abeokuta residence. A further investigation carried out on the picture showing Mahmood Yakubu, INEC chairman, showed that the picture was taken in 2019, during a pre-election press briefing. Also, TheCable reporter at the INEC collation centre in Abuja confirmed that so far, the former president is yet to be seen at the collation venue, not alone come up with election results for all states. VERDICT The claim that Obasanjo showed up at the INEC collation centre in Abuja with the authentic result is false.