The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) of moves to alter the results of the presidential election. In a statement on Sunday, Debo Ologunagba, national publicity secretary of the PDP, alleged that the governors of some northern states have been mounting pressure on officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “These desperate APC governors are allegedly pressuring and blackmailing INEC officials to manipulate the results and transfer massive votes validly cast for the PDP and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, to the rejected APC and its presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu,” Ologunagba said. “Our party has been informed that this nefarious scheme by the APC governors is responsible for the stalling of collation of election results in Katsina, Kano, Kaduna, Zamfara and other APC states where the presidential candidate of the APC is alleged to have released over N11 billion per state to rig the election in his favour. “This, our party has been made aware, is responsible for the unexplained delay in the transmission of election results from the said States to INEC server in Abuja and the commencement of formal announcement of results by the INEC Chairman. “There are reports that the situation is heightening apprehensions and is capable of triggering a breakdown of law and order in these States if not immediately addressed and election results as cast at the polling units are transparently collated and transmitted to INEC headquarters in Abuja.” The opposition party, therefore, asked Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC chairperson, to caution the commission’s officers across states not to tamper with the results of the elections. “The INEC chairman should also direct the immediate transmission of the results to INEC server,” PDP added. “The APC governors must respect the will of the people as expressed at the ballot as anything to the contrary will be firmly resisted by Nigerians. “The PDP continues to call on the public to be calm, remain at alert and use every means necessary within the ambit of the law to ensure that their will is not subverted by the APC.”