The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Imo chapter, has announced plans to boycott all courts in the state for three days due to the gruesome killing of a judge. Nnaemeka Ugboma, the judge and the chairman of the customary court in Ejemekwuru, Oguta LGA of Imo state, was shot dead when gunmen reportedly invaded the court during proceedings on Thursday. The incident ended the court proceeding as lawyers, court staff, and litigants scampered for safety. Reacting to the incident via a statement, NBA branches in Imo said there would be no activities in all courts, starting from Monday, February 6, 2023, through Wednesday, February 8, 2023. The statement was signed by the chairpersons of NBA branches in Owerri, Orlu, Mbaise, Okigwe, and Mbano/Etiti. The lawyers also added that a protest would be held on Tuesday, February 7, 2023, to register their displeasure at the event. “The branches of the Nigerian Bar Association in Imo deplore the cold-blooded murder of a judicial officer, His Worship Nnaemeka Ugboma, Esq., who was shot point blank in Court by yet-to-be-identified gunmen on February 2, 2023,” the statement reads. “On receipt of the news, the Owerri branch of the NBA promptly engaged lawyers within the affected jurisdiction as well as staff of the affected court, who confirmed the incident. We also convened an emergency meeting and further contacted the heads of the judiciary, particularly the chief judge of Imo state and the president of the customary court of Appeal, Imo. “The commissioner of police, Imo state, has also received a request from us for an immediate and thorough investigation into the circumstances leading to the unfortunate incident and to ensure that the culprits are apprehended and made to face the full weight of the law. “This dastardly act is highly condemnable as it desecrates the temple of justice and undermines the confidence of the citizens in the judiciary as the last hope of the common man. “The Bar, therefore, calls on the Imo state government to provide, with immediate effect, security in and around all the courts in Imo State, which have remained porous despite the sensitive role they play in the society. “The Imo Bar, in consonance with the national body of the NBA, ably led by Y.C. Maikyau, OON, SAN, firmly resists the attempt to undermine the judiciary and the legal profession, and instil fear in the conduct of judicial proceedings. “Also, citizens need to be aware that judicial officers and lawyers are not their enemies or opponents; they only aid in the administration of justice. The lawyers added that until they are sufficiently assured of the safety of the judiciary and litigants, there would be a continuous review of the situation.