Dapo Abiodun, the governor of Ogun, says food items will be distributed to “vulnerable residents” in the state as part of efforts to ease the effects of the cash scarcity and petrol shortage. Petrol scarcity and unavailability of cash have led to protests in parts of Ogun state, while banks have also come under attack. Speaking on Friday in a state broadcast, Abiodun said a total of 400,000 food items would be distributed. The governor also appealed for understanding, adding that efforts are ongoing to make cash and petrol available in the coming days. “We understand the frustration and hardship being experienced by our people by these unintended consequences of the new naira policy. We are, however,
saddened by the descent into violence that trailed the protest in Abeokuta. This is not who we are in Ogun state. We’re known for our peaceful conduct and for resolving whatever crises we have the Omoluabi way – in a non-violent manner,” Abiodun said. “The #ENDSARS crisis was a case in point. Our people made their points without recourse to criminality. It is conduct of this nature that earned us the honour of being the most peaceful state in Nigeria. “I appeal to our people, especially our youths, not to take the law into their hands. We have heard their voices loud and clear, and we are responding. I want to assure you that necessary measures are being taken, and in the next few days, you will see in concrete terms the manifestations of the relief being sought. “I appeal to our leaders at various levels, including our revered royal fathers, civil society organisations, youth organisations, students’ bodies, the organised labour and religious leaders to help sensitise our people on the need to embrace peace and dialogue in resolving these issues. “I am more than convinced that the CBN policy on the new naira notes is not a punitive measure but aimed at addressing perceived fundamental problems associated with money management in our economy. “While the CBN has assured that there will be adequate money supply to the money deposit banks in the days ahead, we expect the banks to promptly disburse the money as directed and not to divert or withhold same for whatever reasons. The government will treat any erring banks and bankers as economic saboteurs and will not hesitate to wield the big stick. “Just as we are tackling the naira supply challenge, your government is equally working round the clock to facilitate the adequate supply of petroleum products to designated filling stations. The result will be seen in the next few days. “Violence can never resolve these issues. We must all join hands to solve these problems. Attacking the banks or any public facility will never do us any good. We should not allow unscrupulous elements to take advantage of these challenging times. This is a phase, and we shall surely overcome it. “As a responsible administration, despite all the aforementioned, and worried about how long this has taken to resolve, we have decided to directly provide palliatives to the poor and vulnerable citizens across the length and breadth of
the state. We will be distributing the first phase of 400,000 food items through our social investment officers in each LGA to the communities starting from this weekend. “We hope this social intervention provides some succour to our people. Again, we apologise for the inadvertent hardship and inconvenience this policy has caused all of us. Let me also appeal to our security agencies to handle this situation with more professionalism and deeper maturity. “Indeed, these are trying times for all of us. I appeal to all of us to exercise patience because the much-desired relief is around the corner. Let us give peace a chance.”