The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has inaugurated a panel to investigate allegations of human rights violations during counter-insurgency operations in the north-east. The seven-member panel was inaugurated at an event in Abuja on Tuesday. The panel is chaired by Abdu Aboki, a retired justice of the supreme court. Other members of the panel are Kemi Okonyedo, representing Women Rights Organisation; Azubuike Nwankenta, representing Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), and Letam Wiwa, a retired major-general (military law and intelligence expert). Also, Maisaratu Bakari, consultant in obstetrics and gynaecology in Modibbo Adama University Teaching Hospital Yola; Fatima Akilu, a humanitarian expert representing civil society, and Halima Nuradeen, a psychologist representing youths, are members of the panel. BACKGROUND In the past one decade, the Nigerian military has been fighting a war against insurgents in the north-east and other parts of the country, with a number of counter-insurgency operations implemented. In a report published by Reuters in December 2022, the Nigerian military was accused of conducting a secret, systematic and illegal abortion programme in the country’s north-east, ending at least 10,000 pregnancies among victims of insurgency. Lucky Irabor, the chief of defence staff, had, however, denied the allegations while describing the investigation as “outright nonsense”. NHRC had promised to probe the allegations. NHRC BOSS HIGHLIGHTS PANEL’S TERMS OF REFERENCE Speaking at the inauguration on Tuesday, Tony Ojukwu, executive secretary of NHRC, said the panel will investigate the allegations against the military. “Investigate allegations of gross violations of national and international human rights laws/principles alleged against the Nigerian Armed Forces in the three reports by Reuters. (Sections 5(a)(b)(j) and 6(1)(a) of the NHRC Act, 2010),” the executive secretary said. “To receive memorandum from individuals and organisations with interest in the subject matter of the mandate of the SIIP north-east, especially human rights, security and humanitarian organisations working in the north-east. “Make appropriate determinations as to culpability of individuals or institutions as may be deemed necessary in each circumstance. (Section 5(j) of the NHRC Act 2010). “Make determination as to the damages or compensation payable in relation to any violation of human rights where it deems this necessary in the circumstances of the case (sec. 6(e) of the NHRC Act, 2010). “Refer any matter of human rights violations requiring prosecution to the attorney-general of the federation or of a state, as the case may be. (Section 5(p) of the NHRC Act, 2010).”