The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has dismissed a claim alleging that some serving military officers met with a presidential candidate over a plot to disrupt the general election. Earlier on Saturday, Femi Fani-Kayode, the director of special projects and new media of the Tinubu/Shettima presidential campaign council, claimed that there were reports of Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), having a secret meeting with serving military generals in Abuja on Thursday. There are reports that @atiku had a secret meeting with serving military Generals in Abuja on Thursday. If true, it is troubling & has implications. What was the purpose? Why would a presidential candidate be having secret meetings with soldiers 14 days before the election? 1/ — Femi Fani-Kayode (@realFFK) February 11, 2023  There were also several claims on social media alleging that there was a plot involving the PDP candidate and military officers to disrupt the poll. However, in a statement on Saturday, Tukur Gusau, the acting director of defence information, dismissed the claim, adding that it was “just to heighten tension in the polity”. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria notes with dismay the story being peddled around by some unscrupulous elements alleging that some military officers met with a Presidential candidate with the aim of disrupting the general elections and setting the country on fire,” the statement reads. “The wicked and very malicious propaganda indicated that a so-called Thursday meeting is plotting a Coup d’etat to establish unconstitutional order. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria is disheartened that even politically exposed persons can denigrate themselves into joining agents of destabilisation and violence in making false claims just to heighten tension in the polity. “It needs to be stated that the Armed Forces of Nigeria is a professional military that is loyal to the constitution of the Federal Republic and will never be part of any evil plot against our democracy. “Besides, the Military remains apolitical and neutral in the current political process and will not engage in the alleged shenanigans. The Armed Forces of Nigeria will never be part of any ignoble plot to truncate our hard-earned democracy. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria hereby warn that those who engage in fabricating and spreading unfounded misinformation will be invited by the appropriate law enforcement agencies to substantiate their claims. “The general public is advised to disregard such information and go about their normal activities.”