The campaign council of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna state has called on opposition parties to respect the people’s choice even when it goes against their favour. Ibraheem Musa, director of strategic communication of the campaign council, in a statement on Tuesday, commended the people of Kaduna state for the peaceful conduct of the general election. The APC campaign said they are confident that Uba Sani, the governorship candidate of the APC in Kaduna, will win. “The Kaduna State All Progressives Congress(APC) Campaign Council commends the citizens of Kaduna state for the peaceful conduct of the Presidential and National Assembly elections of 25 February 2023,” the statement reads. “We applaud the people for performing the civic responsibility of casting their votes, under the most severe circumstances. The vote of the people of Kaduna State has contributed to the obvious triumph of the APC in the presidential election. The APC has won a great national victory, despite the obstacles placed in its path by strange decisions that were designed to stir mass anger. “In these challenging times, we have had reversals that will be democratically corrected on 11 March 2023. As democrats, we are not bellyaching over the setbacks our party and its candidates experienced in several constituencies in our state, and we expect every political party to emulate this and respect the choice of the people, not only when it favours their partisan interest. “The Kaduna State APC Council is pressing forward with its engagements with the people for the elections for the state governorship and the state legislature, scheduled for 11 March 2023. This is anchored on a record of competent governance, promotion of public welfare and the concrete achievements the APC has recorded in Kaduna State since 2015. “Since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) gave the go-ahead for campaigns to commence in October 2022, our engagements have been civil, devoid of abusive language and without rancour, in line the Electoral Act, 2022. “Similarly, in line with a significant pillar of the APC’s manifesto of community engagement, the APC has campaigned across local governments, while Distinguished Senator Uba Sani has held interactions across board with professional bodies, tribal associations and religious groups. “In all these engagements, our Senator Uba Sani has presented the APC manifesto, explained what an APC government will continue to do for the progressive advancement of our people and canvassed for the people’s support to actualise it. “As we salute the people who voted for us, we are further resolved to sustain the current developmental strides that the almost eight years of Malam Nasir El Rufai administration has bequeathed to Kaduna state, by campaigning harder, and deepening our push for the vote of our people. “The real battle for the future of Kaduna state will be on 11 March 2023 when Senator Uba Sani whose record of service is unparalleled, and our 34 state assembly candidates will be on the ballot. We are counting on the people of Kaduna state to come out en masse and vote peacefully, as well as overwhelmingly for the candidates of continuity.”