Dele Momodu, director of strategic communications of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign council, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to caution chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In a statement issued on Sunday, Momodu said some members of the APC are announcing an “impossible victory” for Bola Tinubu, the party’s standard-bearer. He said the victory projected for Tinubu does not reflect the actual results trickling from the polling units. “Our attention has just been drawn to the recklessly dangerous publication unilaterally awarding an impossible victory to Tinubu,” the statement reads. “The said newspaper is owned by Tinubu. “Only yesterday, we all saw how thugs of the APC Chieftains and his allies took over the streets of Lagos burning ballot boxes and documents and generally misbehaving in other to disenfranchise the determined electorates. “Despite all of these ugly attempts at stealing victory, the APC suffered its worst cataclysmic loss in most of the polling centres in Lagos. “The same happened in Kano. Incapable of ever being sobered by the crushing humiliation in its traditional territories, we woke up this morning to read about the pathetic and illegal lies cooked up by the Tinubu media goons. “Tinubu remains the only mainstream candidate whose home base of South West was decimated by opposition parties in Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Oyo, Osun, and Ekiti. Most of the Northern Governors he also expected to help him garner votes in the Northern regions failed spectacularly to deliver the badly needed votes. He failed in the South East and South South. “The only candidate with the national spread is the PDP Presidential candidate, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. But as a responsible citizen and respected statesman, he will never rush to the media to claim his well-deserved victory and glory after a long and torturous journey. “We hereby call on INEC and the Federal Government to cage these troublesome APC Chieftains. We have all been witnesses to their unruly behaviour as they did everything to bully and blackmail President Muhammadu Buhari to chicken out of the currency swap policy. “We also witnessed how they practically intimidated the President to the extent of forcing him to publicly display who he voted for in yesterday’s elections. It was quite a bizarre, unfortunate and unprecedented scene to watch.” Momodu asked Buhari to “find the courage to call the bluff of these desperate politicians who feel they can buy the whole of Nigeria”.