Omale Danladi, a native of Igalamela LGA of Kogi, is contesting to represent Igalamela/Odolu LGA at the state house of assembly. Running on the platform of the Labour Party (LP), Danladi said he seeks to retire old politicians and chart a path for youths to take over the mantle of leadership. In a chat with TheCable’s ‘The Young Candidate’, a series spotlighting Nigerian youths seeking elective positions, Danladi said he is contesting the 2023 elections because his people count on him to help the youths “make a statement in this general election”. Danladi, 40, said he was called upon by his people — who went ahead to purchase a Labour Party form for him — to represent them. “When they told me that youths must make a statement in this general election and the person they are counting on is me, I had no option but to accept their call and not only that, they went ahead and purchased a Labour Party form for me,” he said. “Initially, no one believed in me because of the party that gave me the platform but I was able to turn things around and gain more popularity than my opponents. Today, you can verify.”  UNITING YOUTHS AND ENTREPRENEURIAL STREAK Danladi, also known as Oppoza, said he has been actively participating in politics as far back as 2003 when he was 24. He bagged a degree in political science from the University of Abuja in 2016. Danladi said he founded the Igala Young Star Development Association through which he is uniting youths in Kogi East. “I started my political journey in 2003 when Engineer Stephen Onoji contested under the platform of the New Democratic Party (NDP). I later joined Honourable Friday Sani, aka Makama, in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),” he said. “I was the founder of Igala Young Star Development Association, the association that has successfully brought the youth in nine local governments in Kogi East together and built confidence among the youth and elites. I was also elected as chairman of the Odolu Progressive Association (OPA).” Before and beyond politics, Danlidi is a serial entrepreneur. He runs a poultry farm and a fish pond. He is also the general manager of a real estate firm. “I’m a businessman and a grassroots politician,” he said. “I’m the chief executive officer of Dan Ivan Maris Nig Ltd, general manager of Glatt Global Services and also the CEO of Dan Ivan Farms.”  ‘RETIRE OLD POLITICIANS’ Commenting on how the youth can lead differently and bring about the desired change, Danladi said his strategy is to first retire old politicians and put young people in charge. “Most of the youths are jobless today because of bad leadership and governance. I have finetuned my strategy to retire old politicians and allow the youths to embark on projects that will put them in charge of their community,” he said. “Assembly responsibility is defined right from the beginning, and as a youth, I will make sure the interest of the youth is protected and they’re not only leaders of tomorrow on paper but in practice. “I had a heart-to-heart talk with all the wards on a project we will embark on immediately after we win, and that each ward should nominate two persons they trust.” According to Danladi, some of the sectors he intends to develop include healthcare, water, and primary education as well as to draw the attention of the state government to the plight of the people at local government, ward, and community levels. INSECURITY, PETROL SCARCITY WILL END UNDER LP Speaking on the state of the nation, Danladi blamed the lingering fuel scarcity across the country on oil marketers. He also lamented that the security woes in Nigeria are preventing the people from accessing their farms and contributing their quota to economic prosperity. He assured Nigerians that these challenges will be a thing of the past if the LP is voted across various political positions. “I know those who think their money will work for them will be disappointed. And on the issue of scarcity of fuel, this is absolutely wickedness of our so-called oil marketers. The federal government should call them to order,” he said. “Insecurity is the order of the day in Nigeria today which ought not to be. Our people cannot go to the farm and we have APC in power. It’s very unfortunate but under our party leadership, these issues will be things of the past.”  POLITICS FOR THE PEOPLE Danladi said throughout his political career, he has placed the interest of the people over his personal ambitions. He said he will not betray the trust of his people by stepping down from the race for a political appointment. “There is nothing like political compensation in the name of appointment in my agenda and I won’t consider it as an option. Never will I step down for anyone. I can’t betray the trust of my local government and associates,” he said. “I’m not doing politics because of what I stand to gain. I have been using the opportunity given to me by God to help, which made me popular before I was called to contest on the Labour Party platform. Whether I win or not, I won’t stop helping people who God has tied their destiny to me.” Danladi said he has confidence in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to oversee and deliver a free, fair and credible election.