Phrank Shaibu, an aide to Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), says “inciting comments” by some governors of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are provoking riots in the country. Ten states — Kaduna, Kogi, Zamfara, Lagos, Katsina, Cross River, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo, and Sokoto  — are joined as plaintiffs in a suit challenging the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) over the naira redesign policy. Some state governors — including those of Kaduna and Ogun — have also countered the president’s directive on the naira redesign policy and declared the old naira notes as legal tender pending the determination of the suit before the supreme court. In a statement on Monday, Shaibu said the comments by the APC governors threatening to shut banks rejecting the old naira notes have contributed to the violence that has trailed protests in parts of the country. “The President made it clear that the old N1,000 and N500 notes are no longer legal tender. Those who are dissatisfied with the President’s proclamation should go to court rather than resort to self-help. Two wrongs do not make a right,” he said. “Governor Dapo Abiodun, who is the number one citizen of Ogun State, ought to know better. However, he has been threatening to revoke the C of O of banks that obey the President’s proclamation. “This act of defiance has evoked rebellion, hence the riots and burning of banks in Sagamu, Abeokuta, and Mowe. “In viral videos all over social media, agents of Governor Abiodun could be seen sharing the old notes in envelopes branded with the governor’s picture, convincing the supporters that the notes remain legal tenders contrary to the CBN policy. “It is obvious that Governor Abiodun’s concern has nothing to do with the pains of the people. It is only because of the inability of his party to buy votes. If we may ask, where did the APC in Ogun State get the old notes that are no longer in circulation? These are funds that were stashed for vote buying.” Shaibu also supported the claim by the Edo government that Adams Oshiomhole, former governor of the state and ex-APC national chairperson, is behind the recent riots in Edo. “Oshiomhole is one of the biggest critics of the naira redesign policy. It is not surprising that Governor Obaseki, who is the chief security officer of the state, has established that Oshiomhole is behind the riots. The APC really needs to stop provoking these riots,” he said. “The APC and their governors do not love the masses. Their only grouse is their inability to buy votes because of this policy. Nigerians must not be deceived by these unscrupulous politicians.” Shaibu called on the police, the Department of State Services (DSS), and other security agencies to identify the sponsors of those staging the riots. “With elections less than five days away, the ultimate goal of the sponsors of these riots may be the postponement of elections. We commend the military and the police so far for curbing some of these riots” he added. “However, we call on them to go a step further by identifying their sponsors.”