The police command in Enugu says it has arrested Chinwendu Nnamani, identified as the woman seen in a viral video asking for money to distribute permanent voter cards (PVCs) in the state. In January, a viral video showed a woman charging N1,000 each from registrants who came to collect their PVCs. In the video, the woman said the N1,000 was to cover her transport fare and stress she went through to get the cards to a primary school in a neighbourhood in Enugu East LGA. The video elicited reactions on the social media as some Nigerians accused the Independent National Electoral Commission of monetising the collection of PVCs. Reacting to the incident, INEC said the woman in the video is not a staff or adhoc staff of the commission, adding that it would investigate. In a statement on Wednesday, Daniel Ndukwe, Enugu police spokesperson, said Nnamani and one Nkiruka Obinna, identified as an INEC official, were arrested on January 31. “Police detectives serving in the State CID of Enugu State Command, on 31/01/2023, arrested the female suspect, one Chinwendu Nnamani aged 41, involved in the viral social media video clip, in which she is seen and alleged to be selling INEC Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) at the sum of one thousand naira (N1,000.00), at Emene Enugu,” the police spokesperson said. “Also arrested is one Nkiruka Patience Obinna aged 38, identified as an INEC Staff and alleged to have given the said cards to the first suspect for distribution to the actual owners.” The duo have been arraigned line with section 22 of the electoral act. Section 22 of the Electoral Act, 2022 reads: “Any person who — (a) is in unlawful possession of any voter’s card whether issued in the name of any voter or not; or (b) sells or attempts to sell or offers to sell any voter’s card whether issued in the name of any voter or not ; or (c) buys or offers to buy any voters’ card whether on his own behalf or on behalf of any other person, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not more than N500,000 or imprisonment not more than two years or both.”