Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), says no political ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian. Speaking with stakeholders of Rivers state chapter of the party, on Sunday, in Abuja, Atiku said it became expedient for the PDP to suspend its campaign rally in the state. TheCable had reported that the PDP presidential campaign council cancelled its Rivers rally following attacks on the members of the campaign team in the state. Atiku promised the Rivers stakeholders that if elected, his recovery plan for the country will include women and youths of the state. He also promised to complete the rail project from Port-Harcourt to Maiduguri and the deep seaport in Bonny if elected. “I want to start by acknowledging the circumstances and turn of events that have led us to this unique style of a campaign rally,” Atiku said. “Although we did not wish for this, it became expedient that we think and act innovatively to protect the lives of our people from the mindless violence and bloodshed instigated by the very persons who have the primary responsibility for their security and wellbeing. “Our campaign and indeed the PDP subscribes fully to the position that no political ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian. Rivers state and Rivers people are bound by destiny to be critical stakeholders and beneficiaries of the Atiku/Okowa presidency in multiple ways. “The uncompleted rail line from Onne Port to join the Port Harcourt – Maiduguri rail line, which has been on the drawing board for decades will be completed speedily, while the deep seaport in Bonny will receive immediate attention. “Our recovery agenda for Nigeria has a front row seat for Rivers women who are brilliant, talented and hardworking. The women of Rivers state will benefit from our special entrepreneurial funding targeted at women in addition to being considered for appointments to various offices. “I therefore urge you to keep the faith, even in the face of harassment and needless violent intimidation, turn out massively on Saturday, February 25, 2023 and cast your votes as usual for PDP. I assure you that your sacrifice and support will be fully rewarded.”