Amnesty International says those responsible for attacks during campaigns must be arrested and brought to book. In a statement on Thursday, Osai Ojigho, AI country director, was quoted as saying the failure of authorities to prosecute those responsible for deadly election-related violence has emboldened others. She said there has been a cycle of violence in recent months and described as “unacceptable” the recent attacks on campaign convoys and individuals in some states. “There is a pattern of gender-based violence, like threatening women and girls with rape designed to intimidate or prevent them voting, that must cease. Nigerian authorities must uphold their human rights obligations under international law and the Nigerian Constitution of 1999 (as amended) by making sure that advocacy of hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence has no place in the country,” the statement reads. “On 28 November 2022 gunmen killed Victoria Chimtex, the leader of the Labour Party in the Kaura local government area of Kaduna state. In March 2022, Olumo Abolaji, of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State was killed after she was kidnapped. “On 9 November 2022, a campaign convoy in northeast Maiduguri carrying the presidential candidate of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, was attacked and scores were injured. “On January 4 David Uche the chairman of the Young Progressives Party (YPP) in Ibeme Ward, in the Isiala Mbano area of Imo State, was killed by gunmen. “These violent incidents are deeply worrying and may have implications for the general human rights situation before, during and after the elections. We have received reports of supporters of some politicians violently targeting political opponents.” Ojigho said the authorities must ensure that the incidents are investigated and that those responsible are swiftly brought to justice in fair trials. The Amnesty country director added that authorities must ensure that journalists and election observers can carry out their activities safely before, during and after the elections. “Amnesty International will monitor and document the human rights situation to help ensure that perpetrators are held to account, no matter who they are, and that victims are provided with access to justice and effective remedies,” the statement reads. “There should be no room for human rights violations. The Nigerian authorities, political parties and candidates must publicly condemn any intimidation and any advocacy of hatred and incitement. This is a time for all stakeholders to demonstrate that they embrace human rights and to commit to the promotion and protection of human rights in Nigeria.”