Samuel Ortom, governor of Benue state, says Nigerians of south-east extraction not supporting the presidential bid of Peter Obi should not miss the opportunity to make one of their own a president. Ortom, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), recently endorsed Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP). In a statement, Nathaniel Ikyur, Ortom’s chief press secretary, said the governor spoke when he hosted the Igbo community assembly in Markudi on Monday. The governor said the Igbo stands a chance of producing a president after years of agitations. Ortom said all hands must be on deck to realise this, adding that the Igbo cannot afford to miss an opportunity “provided by God”. “I know that if the people are connected in this world, it is the Igbos. This is an opportunity you have to say that an Igbo man from the South East is President because some of us believe in the unity of Nigeria. We believe in working together. That is why we accommodate everybody here. We believe in the unity of this country and so let us not miss this opportunity that God himself is providing,” he said. “The youth have told me, my own people have told me, stakeholders here, traditional rulers, party people across party lines that Obi’s matter is not about PDP, APC or SDP or any other political party. It is about Nigeria.” Ortom said it is unfortunate to see some Igbo personalities kicking against Obi’s presidential bid instead of backing him. “You are many. You have the population and thank God that what is unfolding, Peter Obi is someone that is not bonded by ethnicity and that is why when I hear some prominent Igbo personalities castigating Peter Obi for contesting election, I feel sad,” he added. “Is it not you Igbos that are lamenting that you have been marginalised since after the war? An opportunity has come today and you are still complaining? What do you want? What are you looking for? What do you want? The whole country north, south, east and west are saying that Peter Obi and you hear some people saying we don’t want it ‘haba’ those people should be outcast.” In his remark, Friday Anigor, president-general of Igbo community assembly, appreciated the governor for providing a conducive environment for Igbos in the state to do their commerce unhindered.