Festus Keyamo, spokesperson of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council, and Yakubu Dogara, a former speaker of the house of representatives, have exchanged words on Twitter, a social microblogging platform. Dogara had responded to a tweet by President Muhammadu Buhari who said Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the ruling party, would give his best to the country if elected president. The former speaker had said Buhari’s endorsement of Tinubu was a joke taken too far. But Keyamo would not take any of that, calling Dogara a “political prostitute” and “backstabber” in a tweet. “My brother and law school mate, Dogara, this tweet is beneath you. You are actually pained by the support of PMB for Tinubu, two leaders who have stayed true to their beliefs and causes, unlike the political prostitute, wanderer & back-stabber that you’ve always been,” the minister tweeted My brother and law school mate, @YakubDogara, this tweet is beneath you. You are actually pained by the support of PMB for @officialABAT, two leaders who have stayed true to their beliefs and causes, unlike the political prostitute, wanderer & back-stabber that you’ve always been https://t.co/32q2cigtUj — Festus Keyamo, SAN (@fkeyamo) February 5, 2023  In response, Dogara said though they were mates in law school, they are not mates in politics. The former speaker asked Keyamo to win a councilorship election first so they could be mates in politics. “In spite of what we now know and what you have said before about your candidate, we haven’t rushed to the Courts, yet you feel so entitled to call us names! My good friend, the law I studied was to save me from the morass of propaganda by gaslighters-in-chief and their ilks,” he tweeted. “My brother, I have a name for you but because it’s not a good one, I won’t say it as a cost of friendship. Yes, we were mates at Law School but I am waiting for you to win a councilorship election first so we can be mates in politics. “Learn to punch below your weight category.” In spite of what we now know and what you have said before about your candidate we haven’t rushed to the Courts, yet you feel so entitled to call us names! My good friend, the law I studied was to save me from the morass of propaganda by gaslighters -in-chief and their ilks. https://t.co/PzaiQEhpSi — Rt Hon Yakubu Dogara (@YakubDogara) February 5, 2023  My brother, I have a name for you but because it’s not a good one, I won’t say it as a cost of friendship. Yes, we were mates at Law School but I am waiting for you to win a councilorship election first so we can be mates in politics. Learn to punch below your weight category. https://t.co/PzaiQEhpSi — Rt Hon Yakubu Dogara (@YakubDogara) February 5, 2023 