The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) says some teenagers arranged to be trafficked to Libya have been rescued in Yauri LGA of Kebbi state. Rabi Nuhu, comptroller of the NIS in the state, said this on Monday while addressing journalists in Birnin Kebbi. Nuhu said among the victims are two orphans aged 18 and 15, while the third girl is 17 years old. During interrogation, one of the orphans said she was enrolled in a Baptist High School in Ondo state with her sister before a cleric arranged for them to travel to Libya. “Our pastor in Muranu Agba Church arranged our travel to Libya and we have his contact and contacts of those that we will call as soon as we reach Sokoto,” NAN quoted her as saying. “We are going to Libya to do work to earn a means of livelihood.” The NIS comptroller said the girls were apprehended while they were on their way to Sokoto. “It is a pity that in spite of our calls, talks, and advice to parents on looking after their wards, they still don’t listen,” Nuhu said. “The girls were intercepted by Yauri border patrol on 15th February as they were travelling from Ondo to Sokoto unaccompanied and alone. “The officers became suspicious of them as they are being trafficked out to work in Libya. Some of them will be enslaved and mishandled. “They said a pastor prayed for them and made them fast for seven days so that their journey will be successful. That means, the pastor has a hand in their trafficking. They have number of their contact if they reach Sokoto, including the pastor’s contact. “We have to apply Pact 10 and 11 of Immigration Act 2015, receive them and hand them over to NAPTIP.” While receiving the victims, Sadiq Atiku, head of operations, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Person (NAPTIP), said the case will be properly investigated. “We thank NIS for making our job easier and we are going to investigate thoroughly,” Atiku said. “We have so far successfully arraigned some of the suspected traffickers who have connections with previous victims of trafficking as handed over to us by NIS.”