The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of hoarding the newly redesigned naira notes for vote-buying in the forthcoming elections. In a statement on Sunday, Debo Ologunagba, national publicity secretary of the PDP, said the hardship brought upon the country by the APC will be forgotten when Atiku Abubakar, standard bearer of the PDP, is elected into office. The PDP called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to be mindful of the suffering being experienced daily by Nigerians. The opposition party also asked banks to take urgent measures to arrest the situation by ensuring adequate protection and effective monitoring of cash distribution process. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) expresses optimism that the hopelessness and anguish brought upon our nation by the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration will be a thing of the past when the PDP Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar assumes office as president come May 29, 2023,” Ologunagba said. “The PDP decries the excruciating pain and distress being faced by Nigerians arising from their inability to access the new naira notes occasioned by the reported nefarious activities of corrupt APC leaders who are compromising the system to intercept and hoard the new bank notes for their selfish vote-buying plans ahead of the February 25, 2023 presidential election. “Our party is, however, saddened that the cash crunch had persisted due to the sabotage of corrupt APC leaders, including the APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who are alleged to have masterminded the intercepting and hoarding of the new notes for their selfish agenda. “Nigerians now know the truth and hold Asiwaju Tinubu and the APC directly responsible for the anguish they have been subjected to in the face of this excruciating cash scarcity; another reason they will deal Tinubu a humiliating blow with their votes at the February presidential election. “The PDP calls on President Buhari to protect Nigerians by going after these felonious APC leaders as well as the saboteurs in the system who are reportedly working with the APC presidential campaign to mop up cash meant for distribution to our citizens. “Our party stands with Nigerians; the artisans, traders, drivers, “keke” and “okada” riders, labourers, food vendors, students and all hard-working citizens at this time of distress.”