President Muhammadu Buhari says he expects the police and other law enforcement agencies to ensure that the forthcoming general election is credible. This isn’t the first time the president is making such a request to the police. In 2022, the president said the police should be firm, professional, and loyal to the democratic values of the country during the general election. Speaking on Monday during the launch of operational assets procured by the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), in Abuja, Buhari said he has high expectations of the inspector-general of police (IGP). He also said security agencies should be aware that they are being observed by the international community. “You should, however, be reminded of my high expectations of your leadership, particularly, in relation to the provision of requisite security that will engender not just stable security space ahead of the general elections, but guarantee the credibility of the exercise,” he said. “In this task, I call on the inspector general of police and indeed, all law enforcement agencies that will be complementing the police in the election security process to note that the eyes of the nation and the global community will be on you all. “We are running a democratic system which is guided by the rule of law and the police worldwide is recognised as the most symbolic agency within the democratic governance and rule of law process. “Therefore, any nation that is desirous of deepening her democratic credentials and advancing the course of rule of law mustprioritizse the efficiency of her police institution.” Speaking further, as quoted in a statement by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, Buhari said his administration remains committed to ensuring free and fair elections. “My pledge is to bequeath to the nation a democratic culture in which the police will not only be apolitical and impartial during the 2023 general elections, but also one in which the process will be peaceful and secure and the outcome truly reflective of the free will of the citizens,” he said. “I renew the assurances of my firm trust in your leadership and unwavering support for police. “It is indeed, in demonstration of this that I recently approved the release of requisite funds to the Nigeria Police Force towards the continuation of the next phase in the annual recruitment exercise of 10,000 constables in line with extant Presidential approvals.”