Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), says if elected, he will ensure peace returns to Yobe state. Speaking on Wednesday at the PDP presidential campaign rally in the state, Abubakar said women and youths will be empowered to become entrepreneurs. He said he will also boost efforts to improve economic relations between Niger Republic and Yobe state. “If you vote for PDP, peace will return to Yobe. We will make sure that our schools are re-open so that our children will continue to go to school. We also promised to empower our young men and women by giving them capital, so that they can set up their own businesses. so that they can also live a successful life,” he said. “We promise to reopen the borders so that businesses between us and our neighbours can flourish very well.” In his remarks, Iyorcha Ayu, national chairman of the party, said Nigerians should take advantage of the upcoming election to vote out the All Progressives Congress (APC). “They made you go hungry; they gave you insecurity and other things that you don’t like. Vote for Atiku Abubakar, he will recover Nigeria,” Ayu said. “On the naira swap, it is not all of them that agree to that. Even those that agreed hoarded the naira for vote-buying; that is why you are suffering, Don’t agree. Let Buhari direct the security to retrieve the money they have.” Also speaking, Ifeanyi Okowa, PDP vice-presidential candidate and governor of Delta, said Abubakar is the only candidate who understands Nigerians. “You have made a statement today that you are ready to reclaim the future of Nigeria, the Nigeria that we dream about, not the Nigeria that we go to bed hungry, not the Nigeria where everyone is suffering and there is no employment for our youths. That is not the Nigeria of our dream,” Okowa said. “Of all those who are contesting today, there is only one man who understands Nigeria and that is Atiku Abubakar. He has the right experience and he is well educated and above all, he is a father who cares for you and I. “He cares for the youth. He cares about the women. He cares about the man; he cares about the future of Nigeria. He is the only man that you can trust, please cast your votes for him. “They are going to use the BVAS, so they cannot write results anymore. So, you must be there and ensure that you escort; your votes will determine the future of Nigeria, so you cannot play with it.”