The presidential campaign council of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says some politicians are taking advantage of the naira scarcity to trigger crisis. Charles Aniagwu, spokesperson of the Atiku-Okowa presidential campaign council, spoke on Thursday during a media briefing in Asaba, Delta state. Aniagwu said some opposition politicians are using the naira scarcity to create chaos in order to disrupt the elections. “We have it on good authority that certain politicians from the opposition party are trying to take advantage of the present situation and sufferings of the people to trigger crisis, so as to derail the elections,” he said. “You have seen what happened in Warri and Udu areas of Delta. Some of the protesters were burning shops and destroying billboards which has nothing to do with the redesigned naira notes.” He said those who burnt banks were also inflicting pains on Nigerians who work at the banks, adding that the bank workers may lose their jobs. “So, we are pleading with the people of Delta and other Nigerians not to fall prey to the antics of those who are already jittery because they know they would lose the election and want to cause mayhem to undermine the election,” he said. Aniagwu also spoke on the president’s speech announcing that the validity of old N200 notes had been extended till April 10. “We must agree with the president that we appreciate the pains that Nigerian are going through on account of the scarcity of the naira following the redesigning of our currency, particularly the N200, N500 and N1,000 denominations,” he said. “We believe that it is important that CBN takes steps to ameliorate the sufferings of the people and what Mr President did today is a pointer to the fact that government is desirous of solving the challenges of Nigerians who approach the banks for their money. ”So, the decision of the president to authorise the release of the old N200 notes into the economy for a period of 60 days, is a welcome development. “We also agree that the cashless policy is important to curb corruption, address issues of vote buying, deal with issues of insecurity and kidnapping which the policy to a great extent have addressed. “We want to plead with our people to exercise patience with the government.”