Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, on Wednesday, hosted Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The meeting was held at the Rivers government house in Port Harcourt, the state capital. Abubakar Bagudu, David Umahi, and Babajide Sanwo-Olu — governors of Kebbi, Ebonyi, and Lagos — were present at the meeting. Others are Kayode Fayemi, former governor of Ekiti; Timipre Sylva, minister of state for petroleum; and Adamu Abdullahi, APC national chairman. The development comes amid speculations that Wike is backing Tiunubu’s presidential bid. TheCable had reported how the duo met different times abroad to horsetrade ahead of the elections. Wike — who has the support of his allies — fell out with Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) following the refusal to prevail on Iyorchia Ayu, the party’s chairperson, to resign. The Rivers governor has refused to declare support for Abubakar and boycotted the PDP presidential campaign. ‘NOTHING MUST TRUNCATE ELECTIONS’ Speaking at the meeting, Wike blamed the federal government for the naira scarcity which has resulted in violent protests across the country. “Do you people really want this election to take place or not? Or do you have an agenda to truncate this election? I don’t know. Look at what (protests) happening in Oyo, Edo, and Delta. See what is going on,” he said.  “I believe your party should make sure this election holds. You people are in power, ensure that this election holds. Nobody can solve the issue of corruption in two, three months. It is not possible. This thing is purely politically motivated.” While describing the naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as “anti-people”, Wike said it’s unacceptable for the federal government not to comply with the ruling of the supreme court on the matter. “How can you people be in government at this time; governor of a central bank disrespecting the supreme court? Where has it happened in any democracy? Governor of Central Bank thinking of whether to obey supreme court order? Where has it happened?” Wike queried. In his remarks, Tinubu commended Wike for working for the country’s unity. “Our courtesy call, not to personalise it, is out of the respect I have for you. You worked hard and you voiced loudly your commitment to unity and the critical part of that unity in Nigeria. You never advocated a division of our country. You followed history. You respect the country,” he said.