The Jigawa ministry of health says 38 people have died as a result of a cerebro spinal meningitis (CSM) outbreak in seven LGAs of the state. Meningitis is a serious infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord and remains a major public health challenge. The disease can be caused by different pathogens including bacteria, fungi, or viruses, but the highest global burden is linked to bacterial meningitis. Speaking with journalists in his office on Thursday, Salisu Muazu, the ministry’s permanent secretary, said a total of 398 suspected cases were recorded across towns and villages in the affected local government areas. “The outbreak was recorded in the seven local government areas [around] Niger republic where the outbreak started and later transmitted to other villages and towns of those local government areas bordering the Niger republic,” he said. “The affected LGAs are Babura, Maigatari, Suletankarkar and Birniwa. Others are Gumel, Gwiwa and Yankwashi local government areas. “The disease appeared in 56 political wards where 398 cases were recorded. “Last year, we did immunisation on cerebellum spinal meningitis across the state and we discovered the outbreak in this seven local government areas [around] Niger Republic.” Muazu said after the report of the outbreak, the ministry took samples from patients for tests. “We discovered it was a strange disease. It was not a normal CSM disease which we are familiar with here. We discovered it is a new bacteria known as type B,” he said. “Immediately after the report, the state government through the ministry of health swung into action of treatment, control, and prevention measures in the affected areas. “We established a centre at Gumel General Hospital where all the patients were referred to for treatment. We treated all the patients free. “It is now under control. We now record one to two cases daily. There are some days when we recorded zero cases. Since last Saturday till today, we have recorded only one case.” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (NCDC) had recently held an emergency meeting with the Jigawa state government, the rapid response team, and other partners to identify challenges and proffer solutions to the outbreak.