Salihu Lukman, national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) north-west, says those who wanted Senate President Ahmad Lawan as the presidential candidate unleashed the cashless policy against Bola Tinubu. Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the APC, defeated Lawan and other contenders in the primary of the ruling party. Prior to the primary, Lawan was touted as the consensus presidential candidate of the APC. In a statement on Tuesday, Lukman said “forces” within the APC are unhappy with the likelihood of Tinubu becoming president, hence the introduction of the cashless policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The apex bank, in December 2022, reduced the weekly over-the-counter cash withdrawal limit for individuals to N100,000 and that of corporate organisations to N500,000 – a move to encourage online transactions. The bank also reduced withdrawals at automated teller machines (ATMs) and point-of-sale terminals to N20,000 per day. Many have said the policy would reduce the amount of cash outside the banking system. “There are forces within the APC that are also not comfortable with the possibility that Asiwaju Tinubu will be the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” Lukman said. “Schemers that failed to produce either Mr. Emefiele or former President Jonathan or Sen. Ahmed Lawan as consensus candidate of APC have unleashed Mr. Emefiele’s so-called cashless policy to damage the APC and the candidature of Asiwaju Tinubu. “But like they failed in the case of consensus presidential candidates, they are also failing in their intrigues to damage the APC and the candidature of Asiwaju Tinubu. “Like Asiwaju Tinubu emerged as the presidential candidate of APC despite their machinations, Asiwaju Tinubu will also become president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, God willing.” Lukman said the candidacy of Tinubu is about ensuring that the hopes of Nigerians come to fruition. “That is the founding vision of APC, it remains the pillar of every electoral contest in APC since 2015, and it shall remain so,” he said.