Transport groups, under the aegis of the coalition of transporters, have threatened to picket the headquarters of the Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited due to the lingering petrol scarcity. In a communiqué issued in Abuja on Monday, the groups condemned the current petrol scarcity which has spanned for months “without an end in sight”. Jamilu Alheri, the chairman of the Trailer Drivers Association (TADAN), and five other representatives signed the statement issued after a one-day meeting involving various associations. The associations are the National Association of Traders of Nigeria (NASTAN), the Tricycle Owners Association of Nigeria (TOWAN), and the Commercial Motorcycles Association of Nigeria (COMAN). Others include the Trailer Drivers Association of Nigeria (TADAN), Market Women Association of Nigeria (MAWAN), and Luxurious Bus Operators Union (LUBOU). The associations said they would continue to picket the NNPC towers until the problem was tackled. “A three-day warning of civil strike action is issued to the federal government to quickly fix anomalies in the oil and gas sector leading to hardship across the country,” the statement reads. “The association has issued a red alert to its numerous members across the six geopolitical zones to occupy the Nigeria National Petroleum Limited, NNPL headquarters located in the central business district, Abuja.” They also said members engaged by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to transport election-related materials would be withdrawn if the problem was not resolved. “We are currently experiencing unbearable condition occasioned by the lingering fuel shortage,” the groups said. “Our members depend largely on daily income from the transportation services which have been adversely affected by the scarcity. “It is also inconceivable that fuel is sold at licenced and government recognised filling stations for between N350 to N400 per litre across the six geo-political zones. “This has forced majority of our members to abandon their buses, motorcycles among others.” The associations also criticised the current naira scarcity, saying it had caused Nigerians to endure unimaginable hardship. In recent weeks, citizens of the country have taken to the streets to protest the increase in petrol prices, as well as other societal issues in the country.