President Muhammadu Buhari has called on Nigerians to vote for Bola Tinubu, the standard bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as Nigeria’s next president in Saturday’s polls. Buhari, in a special video message issued on Sunday, described Tinubu as “reliable”, adding that the candidate of his party is a true believer in Nigeria. The president said he is aware of the hardship that some government policies meant to bring development, have caused Nigerians. He asked Nigerians to exercise further patience while giving assurance that the government is making efforts to ease the effects. “Fellow Nigerians, I want to use this opportunity to once again thank you for electing me to be your President on two occasions,” Buhari said. “I am not a contestant in this election, but my party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has a candidate in the person of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. As I mentioned before, Tinubu is a true believer in Nigeria, who loves the people and the development of our country. “I am calling on all of you to vote for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He is reliable and I trust he will build on our achievements. “Finally, I want to once again assure you that I am fully aware of the current hardship you are facing as a result of some policies of the government which are meant to bring overall improvement to the country. “I am appealing to you to exercise further patience as we take appropriate measures to ease these hardships. God willing, there will be light at the end of the tunnel.” This is the second time Buhari would be addressing Nigerians in three days. On Thursday, the president announced the extension of the validity of old N200 notes till April 10 during a televised address. Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna, appeared to suggest in a broadcast to the state’s residents that the naira redesign policy is targeted at Tinubu. Tinubu himself said recently that the redesign and fuel crisis were targeted at him, although he later said the opposition was to blame.