The United States has advised politicians to avoid inciting statements that could trigger violence or voter intimidation. Molly Phee, US assistant secretary of state for African affairs, spoke on Wednesday during a roundtable with journalists in Abuja. Phee, who said ensuring credible polls is the responsibility of all citizens, urged Nigerians to trust in the electoral process, accept the choice of the people when winners are announced, and refrain from post-election violence. “We recognise that Nigeria is undergoing a challenging time with the security problems, which have expanded across the country in recent years, and with the current economic challenges, which initially I thought was amplified by COVID, and now the implementation of the new naira policy,” Phee said. “The assessment that has been relayed to me by the experts who are operating and managing your electoral process is that they are prepared and able to hold and host the elections across the country in spite of the many challenges. “Again, this is where it is important for the candidates, the parties, the individuals, and Nigerians to take responsibility for a successful election, so that in these intense few days before the elections, there are no acts of voter intimidation or suppression through violence, and on the election day, there is no violence as the winner is considered. “The votes are tabulated, results are announced, that people respect and abide by the voice of the Nigerian people. “I think you have a good process. You have a good history since 1999 where after each election, you get stronger and your system improves and I hear a desire and hunger for successful elections. “And I am confident that you can meet that challenge.” She said the US remains committed to supporting Nigeria’s democracy and a peaceful transition of power. “Here in Nigeria, it is my impression that the fundamentals here are very strong and President Buhari has made it very clear that he would not seek a third term, and that he views an important legacy of his time and tenure as president to be a peaceful transition of power,” she said. “In December, when the US hosted the African leaders’ summit, President Biden invited a select number of heads of state to the White House, including President Buhari, to discuss upcoming elections in 2023. “In that meeting, they discussed the importance and challenges of how to arrange a free and fair election that will result in a credible outcome, and how to ensure that the process is peaceful. “Last year, your government enacted electoral reforms which are very positive and have contributed, I believe, to a credible electoral process “It is my understanding that Nigerians have confidence in this electoral system and they should vote with confidence that their votes will count.”