A chief magistrate court in Port Harcourt, the Rivers capital, has remanded Ephraim Nwuzi, lawmaker representing Etche/Omuma federal constituency, in prison. Nwuzi was brought before the court on Wednesday for offences bordering on treasonable felony, conspiracy, promotion of communal crisis, and inciting violence. The lawmaker was arrested on Wednesday morning at his residence in Chokocho, Etche LGA by police officers who allegedly broke into his apartment. Grace Iringe-Koko, Rivers state police spokesperson, in a statement, said the APC lawmaker had been issued an invite for questioning over an inciting video where he allegedly directed his supporters to attack some persons, including officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) during the elections on Saturday. At the court session on Wednesday, Emenike Ebete, counsel to the accused, made an oral application for bail. However, the application was opposed by the prosecution who said the investigation would be better carried out if the accused is remanded. Delivering ruling, Amadi Amadi-Nna, the presiding chief magistrate, ruled that the lawmaker should be remanded at a correctional centre for 10 days pending the outcome of the investigation by the police. Speaking to journalists after the court session, Ebete said the offences preferred against his client were insufficient to warrant a remand. “The offences preferred against him include treasonable felony, conspiracy, inciting violence, promotion of communal crisis, conspiracy, etc., and that they are investigating him and that they want the court to remand him in correctional centre pending investigations,” he said. “We have also submitted to the court that the offences disclosed in the particulars and affidavit attached were not sufficient enough for him to be remanded. “The court in its wisdom held that the offences are grievous and that he should be remanded in prison custody until the 3rd of March 2023 pending when a charge will be preferred against him by the state.”