The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) national working committee (NWC) has expelled Chimaroke Nnamani, senator representing Enugu west senatorial district. In a statement by Debo Ologunagba, PDP spokesperson, the party said the decision to expel Nnamani was taken at the NWC’s 566th meeting held on Friday in Abuja. He said Nnamani and six others were expelled for “anti-party activities and other grave offences in violation of the constitution of the PDP”. Other members who have been expelled are Chris Ogbu (Imo), Ajijola Lateef Oladimeji (Ekiti), Olayinka James Olalere (Ekiti central II), Fayose Oluwajomiloju John (Ekiti central I), Akerele Oluyinka (Ekiti north I), and Emiola Adenike Jennifer (Ekiti south II). The PDP spokesperson said the expulsion is with immediate effect. “The decision of the NWC is sequel to the recommendation of the National Disciplinary Committee and pursuant to Sections 58 and 59 (1)(g) of the PDP Constitution (as amended in 2017),” the statement reads. “The PDP charges all members of our Party across the country to remain united and focused on the mission of our Party to Rescue, Rebuild and Redirect our nation from misrule.” The development comes three weeks after Nnamani, who is the former governor of Enugu, was suspended by the party. Reacting to his suspension at the time, Nnamani said he didn’t get a fair hearing. “I was never at any time notified of any petition or complaint against me or informed of the grounds that formed the decision of the NWC of the PDP to suspend me from the party,” he said. “I was not also invited to any meeting, proceeding, or hearing of the NWC of the party where my supposed offence (s) was/were discussed. I was, therefore, not afforded the opportunity to make representations on my behalf at any meeting where the proposal and decision to suspend me from the party was made. “My right to a fair hearing was consequently violated against the clear provisions of the Constitution of the party, especially in disciplinary proceedings. More importantly the Superior Constitution of the FRN.” In 2022, Nnamani publicly declared his support for Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC).