Women and Youth for Nigeria Coalition, a group of civil society organisations (CSOs), at the weekend, trained youths on how to counter election misinformation and disinformation. The training was held at the complex of Plan International in Abuja. Victor Terhemba, secretary to the coalition steering committee, said the workshop was organised to train youths on how to identify and counter fake news on social media ahead of the elections. “As Nigeria prepares towards the 2023 general election, political campaigns are in high gear as politicians, political parties, and their supporters are deploying different strategies to garner the support of Nigerians to their side and eventually win the election,” Terhemba said. “Part of these strategies is the dissemination of propaganda to deliberately misinform and disinform the populace. “In Nigeria, what we are increasingly seeing is a digital divide not between those who have access and those who do not, but between those who have direct and indirect access to social media content. “Therefore, a comprehensive response to tackle the infiltration of fake news into the country’s wider information ecosystem is urgently needed. “Hence, the Women and Youths for Nigeria, an alliance of civil society organisations, sees the need for the training workshop to equip young people with the skills to detect and debunk fake news and misinformation through adequate knowledge of the various forms of fake news and disinformation.” Terhemba said the participants are now “champions against fake news” and will be able to fight misinformation and disinformation in the media. Charles Usie, country director of Plan International Nigeria, described the workshop as “timely and well thought-out”. He said by attending the workshop, the youths understand the dangers of fake news and are ready to fight for the “very soul of Nigeria”. Rachel Mujong, one of the participants, said she has learnt from the workshop how fake news can fuel insecurity. “I think it was well organised and the facilitation session was a mix of teaching and perspective sharing,” she said. “I got real-life experiences of how misinformation/disinformation has led to security issues in north-central, Kaduna.“ Joshua Samson, another participant said the workshop was “impactful” and that the objectives have been achieved. “I learn from the panel session the difference between misinformation, disinformation, and what fake news is. What stood for me is the core name of fake news in journalism called yellow journalism,” he said. Members of the coalition include Raising New Voices, Plan International, Education as a Vaccine, Inclusive Friends Association, Women in Politics Forum, RuralPro, and Center for Peace Advocacy and Sustainable Development (CEPASD). Others are Open Minds Young Voices Network, The Electoral Hub, Proactive Gender Initiative, and Building Blocks for Peace Foundation.