Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has promised to defeat banditry if elected. He said this on Monday at the APC presidential campaign rally in Katsina state. Speaking on the recent murder of vigilantes in Bakori LGA of the state by bandits, Tinubu said the APC remains committed to ensuring improved security. Bandits, on February 1, invaded the home of one Alhaji Muntari in Kandarawa, Bakori LGA of the state, and stole several animals. In an attempt to retrieve the stolen animals, members of the proscribed vigilante group, Yansakai, went after the assailants, but they were ambushed and 41 of them were killed by the gunmen. Speaking at the event which was held at the Muhammadu Dikko stadium, the APC presidential candidate condoled the people of Katsina over the incident and thanked those who attended the rally in spite of the killings. He also assured the Katsina electorate that efforts are ongoing to eliminate banditry in the state. “We will definitely deal with them. They will not go scot-free. Whether they derive some moment of joy or satisfaction, we are saying we are courageous, we are strong, we believe in Allah, and we will defeat them. They are evil. We will eliminate them,” Tinubu was quoted as saying. While thanking security agencies for their efforts, the APC presidential candidate asked participants not to allow the “poverty development party” to come back to power. “No to PDP, no to evil, no to killers,” he said. In his remarks, President Muhammadu Buhari commiserated with the people of Katsina over the attack and urged them to remain courageous and hopeful in order to defeat terror. Meanwhile, Atiku Bagudu, governor of Kebbi, told attendees at the event that there were debates on whether to postpone the rally. “We decided to go on because some people are already here and it will be disappointing for them to come without getting to see the president and Asiwaju. But we are here to condole with you. We will be back,” he said.