Political leaders from across the south-west zone have declared their support for Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The decision was announced on Monday at the ‘Yoruba Leaders of Thought’ summit, which held at the Eko hotels and suites in Lagos. In a communique by Tajudeen Olusi and Adebayo Aina, convener and secretary of the group, respectively, the south-west leaders said Tinubu has what it takes to lead the country well. “Yoruba and Southwest leaders made up of Yoruba groups who believe in the oneness of Nigeria based on equity, fairness and justice, a nation where no one is oppressed, held an interactive session with the presidential candidate of the APC Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu at Eko Hotels, Victoria Island, Lagos on Monday 20th February, 2023,” the communique reads. “The meeting commended leaders of the APC for encouraging spirit of belongingness and national unity by honouring the age-long desire of Nigerians for power shift, the principle which led to the overwhelming emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the presidential candidate. “The highly successful interactive session noted the phenomenal successes already recorded by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu both in his pre-political career and in his public life as a politician, administrator and leader. “The meeting concluded that when compared to others in the race for the presidency of Nigeria in 2023, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu stands head and shoulder above the rest. “He is the most prepared, the most suitable in terms of competence, character, capacity and the most humane to lead Nigeria to an enviable prosperous status among the comity of nations in the 21st century.” While commending the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, they called for measures to address the current scarcity of naira notes. They also urged members of the APC to remain committed to the development of the country, in line with the founding principles of the party. “The meeting commended President Buhari for the achievements he has recorded thus far and for demonstrating that he is a patriot and a man of integrity,” the south-west stakeholders said. “They, however, called on him to take immediate and radical steps to attenuate the sufferings occasioned by the twin-scarcity of new Naira notes and fuel in the country. “We commend the present and founding fathers of APC for building the party into a formidable vehicle for winning elections. But it must transform from a mere vehicle for attaining electoral victories to an organisation that can confidently chart and execute a development path for Nigeria. “In conclusion, Yoruba leaders of thought appealed to Nigerians in general to keep a date with Asiwaju Tinubu on February 25, 2023 to drive the shared prosperity that the Asiwaju presidency is bound to bring to Nigeria.” Present at the event included Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Biodun Oyebanji — governors of Lagos and Ekiti, respectively — Segun Osoba, former Ogun governor; Gboyega Oyetola, APC governorship candidate in Osun; and Gbenga Daniel, former Ogun governor.