Dayo Israel, national youth leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has threatened political appointees in Lagos state “who fail to deliver their wards for Babajide Sanwo-Olu.” Sanwo-Olu is seeking re-election as governor of Lagos. He will battle other guber candidates to retain his office on March 11. In a Twitter post on Monday, Israel said political appointees in the state who fail to deliver the governor’s re-election bid in their respective wards should forget their appointments. The APC national youth leader, in the now-deleted post, also called on the political appointees to begin a door-to-door campaign for Sanwo-Olu ahead of the election. “Any appointee in Lagos who doesn’t deliver his ward on the 11th March should not bother coming to Alausa on the 13th. Everyone should drop their tinted car and start walking the street. Knock on your neighbours door, beg those you need to beg, make peace. Deliver for #Sanwoolu,” he wrote.  “Nobody should do ‘One-million-man march’ Oribu kan mo. Focus on door-to-door. Party excos, youth leaders, councillors, leaders, we have 10days to #SanwoAgain, go and engage your neighbours. #deliveryourstreet, be humble, get off your high horse. Ise wa o.” Nobody should do “One million Man March” Oribu kan mo. Focus on door to door. Party excos, youth leaders, councillors, leaders, we have 10days to #SanwoAgain, go and engage your neighbours. #deliveryourstreet, be humble, get off your high horse. Ise wa o. — The Dayo Israel™ (@dayoisrael) February 27, 2023  Dayo’s tweets came shortly after Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), defeated Bola Tinubu, his APC counterpart, in the presidential election held in the state. Tinubu is a former Lagos governor. The state is historically his stronghold as well as that of the APC. However, results by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) showed APC got 572, 606 while LP polled 582, 354 votes to win the state. The outcome of the election is considered by many as a blow to Tinubu and the APC’s perceived grip on the state.