The federal government has reacted to the 2022 corruption perception index released by Transparency International (TI). In the report by the agency on Tuesday, Nigeria maintained its previous-year rating on the 2022 corruption perception index. In the 2022 index, the country scored 24 out of 100 points — same as 2021 but with a different ranking. Reacting to the development, Lai Mohammed, minister of information, said TI should change the template used in the ranking, adding that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has recorded notable achievements in the fight against corruption. “We are not fighting corruption because we want to impress Transparency  International or any organisation whatsoever. We’re fighting corruption because we believe if we do not fight corruption, there’ll be no growth either in terms of the economy or even politically,” he said. “Therefore, what we do and what we’re putting in place to fight corruption is not because we want to be rated by anybody. “If, for instance, what we’re doing catches the attention of Transparency International and they improve and give us better marks, so be it. “However, I can assure you that we do not know what template TI is using. Whatever template they’re using is clearly oblivious of what this administration is doing, to fight corruption. “Corruption fighting is not just by how many people have you arrested. How many people have you tried?  How many people have you convicted? Of course, even in that respect, we have a very impressive record. Is it the EFCC or is it the ICPC? “I am proud to say that we have been more proactive in fighting corruption and people are not willing to see what we have put in place in fighting corruption. And that’s why I gave that example of putting money aside and how those funds are being used. “Again, the courage of this administration even to expose high-ranking officials of the administration who have run foul of the law is evidence of our determination and courage to fight corruption. “So, we are not really worried or bothered about the rating of the TI, because we know that everything we do is to ensure that we fight corruption the best way we know how to do it. Like I said, if TI is not seeing this, then again, I think they have to change their template. But again, we’re not fighting corruption to impress them.”