Kayode Fayemi, the former governor of Ekiti state, has asked Nigerians to exercise restraint and patience in the aftermath of the presidential election. In a statement issued on Monday by Ahmad Sajoh, head of his media office, Fayemi said citizens should resist making inflammatory comments or taking actions that may lead to the breakdown of the law. ‘’The election is not war. There are about 90 million registered voters and it is impossible for all of them to have uniformity of electoral choices,” the state reads. “Diversity and plurality of beliefs, ideas, and attitudes are the bedrock of representative democracy. An election will probably not be necessary if we all have the same choices. ‘’I, therefore, urge all Nigerians to be calm and not to make inflammatory statements or take actions that may lead to the breakdown of law and order. We should allow the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials to tally and announce the results. ‘’I note that INEC had challenges relating to the digitalization of the electoral process but the Commission had promised to fix this. We should give INEC benefit of the doubt, and await the completion of the process and the announcement of the final outcome. ‘’I appeal to political leaders and actors to exercise restraint at this point and not to incite or encourage their followers to take the laws into their hands. “Elections are a process and they don’t necessarily end with the announcement of results on election day. “Aggrieved persons can still approach the courts to seek redress if they believe they have been cheated or robbed of electoral mandates.” Fayemi encouraged Nigerians to work together for the country’s development regardless of the outcome of the election. ‘’While elections will come and go, our country will remain,” he added. “Therefore, we should not consider this particular election as the end of electoral opportunities for the country. “There will be life after this election and we must all work together, regardless of the outcome, to make Nigeria great.’’