Christopher Imumolen, presidential candidate of the Accord Party, says “old men” like Bola Tinubu, Atiku Abubakar and Peter Obi should allow the youth to lead Nigeria. Tinubu, Atiku and Obi are presidential candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Labour Party (LP) respectively. Imumolen spoke during his campaign in Abuja on Wednesday. He said the three presidential candidates have served Nigeria in various capacities as youths. “If you look at the other runners in the presidential race, you will see that the other contestants achieved so much as youths; they achieved the apex of their career in their early youths,” he said. “All their testimonies were from their youthful days, so we believe that great leaders are those given opportunities to serve at their youthful age and that is why I am in the race. “Look at countries like France, Kenya and others, their leaders are young, vibrant youths with in-depth capacity to lead because they are youths. “Nigeria is progressing because of the youth. A few days ago, a musician called Tems won the Grammy Award, which means if the youth are allowed to run the government and economy of the day we would see results. “Nigeria is a great country but we have been so unlucky with bad leaders; we have great youths with bad leaders. It is not a curse to be a Nigerian and to live in Nigeria, but it is a curse to allow these old men to continue to rule us to nowhere.” Imumolen said he has impacted the lives of Nigerians with his private funds and is ready and willing to replicate greater impact when elected as the president of Nigeria. “I have done so much privately, I am the youngest candidate and the only candidate that has built schools, put students on scholarship schemes, provided healthcare and prison reform programmes to Nigerians,” he said. “Nigeria has various mineral resources, over 500 of them, yet many are untapped and I have the transformative capacity to utilise every available resource that we have to make our country the envy of others. “With my private funds, I have given education to over 20,000 Nigerian students; I have empowered women to become financially stable; I have alleviated poverty in the grassroots and brought good healthcare to the people. “I’m the youngest, most educated candidate and I’m the only candidate that when you go about, you see people testify about me with or without politics.”