Point of sale (PoS) operators have claimed that bank officials sell cash (both old and new naira notes) to them. In separate interviews with NAN in Abuja on Friday, some of the operators said they pay an exorbitant fee which depends on the amount withdrawn. To make up for the extra expense, they explained that they had no choice but to increase the charges paid by customers. They further appealed to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to penalise banks involved in the act. An operator along Nyanya-NNPC road, who preferred anonymity, said she paid the extra charge to keep her business going. ”I paid a very high amount to get this money that I am giving to customers. If you look around here, other operators did not open,” she said. ”The woman (bank official) that I collect money from even increased the money today because she said that cash is scarce and she kept it for me because I called her earlier to do so. ”I pay according to the amount I collect. Sometimes, I pay as high as N5,000 for N50,000 to N70,000 that I collect from her. ”I charge N500 for every N5,000 withdrawn and N1000 for every N10000 withdrawn for me to recover what I spent to collect the money.” Also speaking, Nnedi Ikonye, a PoS operator along Lugbe, said she paid N3,000 for withdrawing N65,000 in a bank. ”I was asked to pay N3,000 for the N65,000 that I withdrew from a bank and that is because I know someone in that bank,” Ikonye explained. “That is just a token compared to what my colleagues are paying. They pay more because they don’t know people in the bank.” Alphonsus Idah, a PoS operator at Mararaba market, urged the CBN to impose sanctions against banks who persist in selling cash to their customers. This, he explained, would stop the untold hardship faced by citizens. Another PoS operator, who pleaded anonymity, alleged that bank officials usually withdraw money for their clients. “In some banks, ATM will not work even though they are loaded with cash,” the operator said. “During close of work, the bankers will turn the machine on and queue to withdraw from the machine. “The annoying thing is that one banker can hold like 10 different ATM cards and will withdraw from all of them. This is frustrating.” In a bid to address long queues at automated teller machines (ATMs), the CBN had directed banks to commence payment of redesigned notes over the counter, with a daily limit of N20,000.