Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has sympathised with victims of the fire incident at the popular Monday market in Maiduguri, Borno state. Hundreds of shops were razed in a fire outbreak at the market in the early hours of Sunday. Babagana Zulum, the state governor, had earlier donated N1 billion as relief fund to the victims. Tinubu, in a statement on Sunday by Tunde Rahman, his media aide, expressed sadness over the development and promised to support the victims. “I’m deeply saddened by the news of the fire that razed down the Maiduguri Monday Market,” he said. “My prayers and thought are with Governor Babagana Zulum, the government and people of Borno State and the direct victims who lost their wares and life investment to this rather unfortunate inferno that brought down the sprawling market that has been part of the social and economic fabric of Maiduguri for decades. “I am encouraged by the swift response of Governor Zulum who already addressed the people in a statewide broadcast. The announcement of N1billion relief fund by the state government is a very good first step in bringing succour to the people and assuring them they are not alone in this very trying and difficult moment. “I am also with you in prayers that Almighty Allah will recompense the victims in manifold ways so they can quickly get back on their feet. “While urging the Federal Government and all emergency and relief agencies, donors and public spirited individuals to extend hands of support to victims, I want to personally pledge that I will contribute handsomely to the rebuilding of the market and relief fund for victims. “It is my prayers that God will keep us safe from all evil as I urge all of us to be more safety conscious during this period when winds and high temperature increase risk of fire hazards.” In another development, Tinubu also expressed condolences to Babatunde Fashola, minister of works, over the death of his uncle, Salmon Fashola. In a statement by Rahman, the APC candidate “urged the minister, the family and others left behind by the deceased to take heart and accept his passing as the will of Almighty Allah”. “While praying that God grant them the strength to bear the loss, he also beseeched Munificent Allah to admit the deceased to Aljanna Firdaus,” the statement adds.