Simon Stiell, the executive secretary of United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), says 2023 presents an opportunity for definitive action on energy transition. Speaking on Tuesday at the Oslo energy forum, Stiell said there is an opportunity ahead of COP28 to make energy transition a definitive moment for climate action. “For years, the world was told that issues on any energy transition were too difficult to overcome, the costs were too great, attitudes too ingrained, political positions too deadlocked,” he said. “Yet precisely, the opposite has occurred. We’ve witnessed global momentum for the global energy transition. The proof is clear in outcomes from the formal climate change process and on-the-ground action. “Decisions adopted by all Parties in Sharm El-Sheikh stressed the urgent need for clean and ‘just’ energy transition through low-emission and renewable energy. They further stressed that geopolitics should not be used as a pretext for backtracking, backsliding or de-prioritising climate action. “In the meantime — outside the formal process — the last five years have seen the acceptance, transformation and exponential growth of renewables surpassing almost every projection.” He said the possibility of just energy transition is available for all countries, and the months leading to COP28 is effective to move from discussion to solutions that will significantly reduce climate crises. “Opportunities related to the clean energy transition are there for all countries, all businesses, as are opportunities to make this a just transition for all workers,” Stiell said. “It’s time to move from discussions about balance to solutions — solutions that get us from where we are now to where science tells us we need to be by 2030 if we’re to ultimately limit long-term climate chaos. “The next 10 months leading to COP28 give us a unique opportunity to take those steps. It features the world’s first Global Stocktake — a moment of truth. This has the potential to be a transformational moment in history.” The UNFCCC executive secretary said to truly transform the energy sector, the conference of parties (COP) and the global stocktake (GST) need to make decisions that will accelerate transition. He mentioned steps to include: “accelerate the energy transition in not only energy supply but also end-use sectors including transport, buildings and industry; promote international cooperation aiming to accelerate energy transition — including through just energy transition partnerships, global methane pledges and renewable energy initiatives; strengthen efforts to deploy carbon capture and carbon dioxide removal technologies to phase down unabated fossil fuel-based power”. Other steps include to “adopt and implement mitigation plans now to halve emissions by 2030; strengthen efforts to reduce emissions from international aviation and shipping; and identify existing emissions gaps in the energy sector”.