The UEFA Champions League (UCL) has resumed from its lengthy break. A lot has changed across the football world since its spine-tingling anthem last rang across stadia in Europe. Lionel Messi and Argentina won the World Cup. Manchester City are currently under investigation for financial anomalies that could end in expulsion from the English Premier League (EPL). But all those must pause now. UCL returns with its big personalities and an even bigger clash. Unlike previous seasons in recent years, the competition fangled assortments of clash of the titans from its second round. It serves up a repeat of last year’s clash with Real Madrid, the defending champions, contending with the sulking revenge-seeking Liverpool. Jurgen Klopp’s side is currently going through a rough patch of form that dropped them far away from the EPL top four than expected. The partnership between Mo Salah and new signings Cody Gakpo and Darwin Nunez in the Liverpool attack has lacked the zing that Anfield has grown accosted to in recent years. Carlo Ancelotti and his Madrid side are not far better off. With a roster full of players who are injured or returning from injuries, Los Blancos’ form saw Barcelona open an 11-point gap at the top of La Liga between December and January. Although last week’s FIFA Club World Cup triumph might be a pivot in form for the Spanish champions, they must steady their oars for Liverpool chaos. In another repeat of a famous final, Bayern Munich must show PSG that the 2020 defeat in Lisbon was no fluke. The Bavarians have since lost Robert Lewandowski to Barcelona, but that has bitten little from the edge of the German side. However, with Messi as an added spice to the already star-studded attack at the Parc des Princes, the Germans have their work heaped up. Man City are also one of the biggest favourites for the competition this season yet again, particularly bolstered by the uber-scoring prowess of Erling Haaland, who has scored 31 goals in all competitions already. Pep Guardiola and his side must pass the potentially tricky test against RB Leipzig to continue their advance. Antonio Conte’s struggling Tottenham Hotspur must stay awake from their prolonged slumber with AC Milan barrelling down on them. The Lilywhites have lost three of their last five league games. But if they are to progress past Stefano Pioli’s team, they must produce a sturdy performance like the 1-0 victory over Man City a few weeks ago. Wobbly Chelsea are teetering on the edge, and the splurge in January has not, so far, stopped the decline. Joao Felix, Mykhailo Mudryk, and Noni Madueke have only shown sparkles, but none has ignited the fire that can shake Chelsea out of their blues. With Borussia Dortmund in their crosshair, the Blues must wake up or go home. Napoli are one of the season’s surprise package. Buoyed by the devastating duo of Khvicha Kvaratskhelia and Victor Osimhen, the Parthenopeans finish ahead of Liverpool in group A and are currently 13-point above the chasing pack in Serie A. Eintracht Frankfurt might be a worthy test, but Napoli have the momentum and talent to edge it. Inter Milan and FC Porto also promise another mouthwatering encounter alongside Club Brugge and Benfica. The first leg of the UCL second round commences on Tuesday through February 22.