Stakeholders have proposed ways in which Nigeria can foster an enabling environment for girls as part of efforts to create better opportunities for females. The recommendations by the stakeholders formed part of activities at a summit organised by Nigeria’s Emergency Coordination Centre (ECC), led by Ayoade Alakija. The summit had the theme ‘Girl Child: Nurturing Our Women, Nigeria’s Own Wealth’ and was held from February 2 to 3 in Abuja. Attendees at the summit included stakeholders from health, education, and development sectors from within and outside Nigeria. Among recommendations at the event included discussions on a “social contract” to create an enabling environment for girls and women so they can thrive and not just survive. At the event were Olorunnimbe Mamora, minister of science, technology, and innovation; Zainab Ahmed, minister of finance, budget, and national planning; and Pauline Tallen, minister of women affairs. Learning environments, health and sanitation, safety and security, cultural values, financing education, and implementing the social contract were discussed at the summit. Keynote speakers at the summit included Tedros Ghebreyesus, director-general of the World Health Organisation (WHO); Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the director-general of the World Trade Organisation (WTO); and Gordon Brown, UN special envoy for global education and former British prime minister.  Girls and women from states from across Nigeria spoke on their experiences as it relates to their gender, as well as their expectations on how to make life better for females in the country. Speaking at the summit, Alakija and other leaders highlighted the need for more female mentors, while Brown cited the need for a new social contract for girls. “I support a new call for a new social contract in Nigeria. For girls and women to thrive and not just survive, such a social contract must be inclusive of health, education, and all the development goals and take a whole-of-society approach to deliver it. I applaud Alakija in the design of this summit in bringing the voices of girls and women from across Nigeria to the fore,” the UN envoy said.