Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says it is an “insult” for Atiku Abubakar, standard-bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to describe the state as “unsafe”. Speaking on Monday at the flag-off ceremony for the construction of the Emohua/Abalama/Tema road in Emohua LGA, Wike said the people of Rivers won’t vote for a candidate that tagged the state as unsafe. Wike was reacting to Abubakar’s comment about Rivers over the cancellation of the party’s presidential campaign rally in the state. “I want to start by acknowledging the circumstances and turn of events that have led us to this unique style of a campaign rally,” Atiku had said at a town hall meeting with PDP stakeholders from Rivers, at an event in Abuja “Although we did not wish for this, it became expedient that we think and act innovatively to protect the lives of our people from the mindless violence and bloodshed instigated by the very persons who have the primary responsibility for their security and wellbeing.” Reacting to the development, Wike said it is “an insult” to Rivers for anybody seeking votes to meet the residents outside the state. “You are addressing Rivers people in Abuja. Is that not an insult? You cannot come to Rivers state and talk to us,” Wike said. “You say Rivers state is not safe, but you want their votes. Rivers people, will you allow that? Those who declared our state to be unsafe are those who are seeking your votes. It is unfortunate. No right-thinking Rivers person will take that insult. “And I challenge all of you here to behave like true Rivers people to say nobody can buy you; nobody can summon you outside Rivers state. “If you want to talk to us, come to Rivers state and talk to us. No amount of blackmail, no amount of intimidation can change our position. We want the unity of Nigeria.” The Rivers governor added that the people of the state will vote for a candidate who has the welfare of the state at heart. Wike and four other governors of the party — Samuel Ortom (Benue), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) — have boycotted Abubakar’s presidential campaign rallies.