Inuwa Yahaya, governor of Gombe, has appointed Halima Mohammed as the substantive chief judge of the state. Mohammed, the first female to be appointed in a substantive position, was sworn in as the chief judge on Thursday in Gombe. Speaking at the swearing-in ceremony, Yahaya said it was “joyful and historic” to witness a woman assuming the position of the head of the state judicial system. He said Mohammed was appointed following a recommendation by the National Judicial Council (NJC). The recommendation was also approved by members of the Gombe state house of assembly as mandated by the constitution. Yahaya described the new chief judge as “a woman of redoubtable legal expertise, outstanding experience, strong character, and remarkable integrity, who will continue to serve as source of inspiration to our daughters”. “As an experienced jurist, I have no doubt that she has what it takes to impact positively on the administration of justice in Gombe state,” NAN quoted the governor as saying. “It is our belief that she will discharge her duties in this new role with utmost commitment and integrity, as she has always done for the benefit of our dear state.” The governor urged the new chief judge to deliver good leadership and ensure the justice system is properly managed. Mohammed, who was said to have wept during the oath-taking, said it would be an emotional moment for anyone assuming the office of a chief judge. While addressing journalists after the ceremony, she promised to prioritise the welfare of workers. “I was not born with a silver spoon, having attended Local Education Authority (LEA) school and from there to Queen’s school, Ilorin,” she said. “So, no matter your position or location, if you put up an effort, it will be seen by the world and you will move forward.” Mohammed was born on May 3, 1963, in Tula, Kaltungo LGA of Gombe. She attended LEA primary school in Billiri LGA of the state and had her secondary education at Queen Elizabeth School in Ilorin, Kwara. She completed her first degree in law from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and later obtained a Master of Law (LLM) from the University of Jos in Plateau state. Meanwhile, others who have held the position of substantive chief judge are Hakeela Heman, Mua’zu Pindiga, and Joseph Awak. Beatrice Iliya, a female who had also been appointed as chief judge, held the position in acting capacity.