ARDA Developmental Communication Incorporated (ARDA-DCI), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), has announced the launch of a toll-free interactive voice response (IVR) hotline in Lagos and Borno states. The NGO inaugurated the initiative in Lagos on Thursday. The toll-free number — 08000-20-20-20 — is for sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) survivors to be connected to speak with trained counsellors as well as get access to basic information and support. The organisation said through partnerships with sexual assault referral centres, it aims to spread its tentacles and ensure that a wide range of people and places are reached. With the initiative, the organisation added that survivors across Lagos and Borno can access holistic medical care, psychosocial support, referral services, legal aid, and important information on sexual and gender-based violence. Speaking at the launch, Tony Phido, chairperson of the board of directors, ARDA Inc., said the initiative is also part of efforts to advance the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 5 on entrenching gender equality and decreasing all forms of violence against women and girls. “ARDA-DCI is implementing the ‘Open Arms Project’ in Lagos and Borno states. The launch of the 0-8000-20-20-20 toll-free number for SGBV survivors is a significant step towards supporting survivors of violence, and ARDA is excited to be able to make this service available to those who need it most,” he said. “The Open Arms Project is an adaptive triage service for sexual and gender-based violence response information, counselling, and referral services through mobile technology. “The interactive voice response (IVR) solution is borne out of the need to build on the existing avenues for survivors to access holistic care after an incidence of abuse, particularly in Lagos and Borno. “To this end, in Lagos, the organisation is partnering with leading sexual assault referral centres, Mirabel Centre, Cece Yara, and The Initiative for Equal Rights (TIERS).” Data Phido, executive director, ARDA-DCI, expressed optimism about the expected success of the project. “The number of incidences around sexual and gender-based violence cases nationwide is alarming, but we narrowed the ‘Open Arms Project’ to focus on the bustling city of Lagos and the recovering city of Maiduguri,” she said. “I am optimistic about the outcome of this partnership, and its immediate and long-term effect on the wellness of the survivors who access our services.” On her part, Adetutu Ajibodu, chief executive officer, The Cece Yara Foundation, said she believes the initiative, long overdue, would go a long way in helping a lot of people. “Apart from being able to pick up the phone and report the case, people should be able to get access to the health and justice that they deserve — also, the accommodation that they need,” Ajibodu said “A lot of people do not know organisations like ours exist. This sort of initiative or collaboration is helping put the word out there to let people know that there’s actually a shelter that can help you and it will be free of charge. No one is charging you to get the service that you need.”