Mele Kyari, group chief executive officer (GCEO), Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, says African nations must cooperate and exchange expertise in order to achieve energy independence and transition as demand is expected to increase by 35 percent on the continent. Kyari spoke at the 7th edition of sub-Saharan Africa international petroleum exhibition and conference (SAIPEC). The event was themed ‘harnessing a sustainable African energy industry through partnerships’. Kyari, represented by Adokiye Tombomieye, group executive vice-president, upstream, NNPC Limited, said the Nigerian oil and gas industry is experiencing a significant transformation following the passage of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). “As you are all aware, the act has provided role clarity in governance, rule-based administration, attractive and flexible fiscal terms and direct benefits for the host communities,” he said. “All these are targeted at creating enablers for investor confidence in the Nigerian oil and gas sector, where ample opportunities exist. “Ironically, our restructuring is happening at a time when the energy transition discussion is gaining momentum, and major fund providers for petroleum upstream investment are now activists and anti-fossil fuel. “As I have always canvassed, decreasing investments in hydrocarbon ventures cannot guarantee global energy security in the near future. “Rather, an inclusive policy that guarantees access to finance and low-carbon technologies are key to sustaining global energy security and equitable growth. “Nigeria, being geographically situated in the sub-African region and also a foremost leader in the oil and gas industry in sub-Saharan Africa, we must now capitalise on the advancements we have made in the industry to meet our energy demands, guarantee energy supply, expand our economies and overall, build a sustainable future for millions of people beyond our shores. “In the next 20 years, energy demand in Africa is expected to increase in the order of 30-35 percent to support the projected increase in population and industrialisation. “This presents an enormous opportunity for us to form partnerships across the continent and build a sustainable future.” Kyari said the need for partnership is more reinforced as more African countries continue to make hydrocarbon discoveries. He said the partnership would in no small measure assist in “achieving energy independence and also aid the transition to cleaner energy sources such as gas to sustain the region”. “We should collaborate and share knowledge and help each other in critical areas including exploration and production, research and development, technical expertise and human capacity development to spread the wealth within the continent,” Kyari said. “At NNPC Limited, we understand the importance of partnerships in achieving a sustainable energy industry in Africa. This is why we have been working closely with countries, companies and other stakeholders to develop innovative solutions that meet the energy needs of the continent,” the GCEO said. “We must acknowledge that this new era of automation and artificial intelligence is focused on the application of cutting-edge technologies, such as the use of robotic drilling systems for unmanned operations, the deployment of cognitive computing in upstream operations, super-specialised sensors for real-time monitoring and maximisation of reservoir yields.”