Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says the G5 governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have not parted ways. The G5 governors are Wike, Samuel Ortom of Benue, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Seyi Makinde of Oyo, and Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia. Speaking on Tuesday at a campaign flag-off rally organised by the Rivers PDP campaign council for Ahoada east LGA, Wike said Lee Maeba, chairperson of the PDP presidential campaign in the state, claimed that the G5 is dead. Describing the statement as preposterous, the Rivers governor said the G5 group had withdrawn from speaking regularly in public, to strategise. In a statement by Kelvin Ebiri, special assistant on media to the Rivers governor, Wike added that no matter how much people try, the G5’s next line of action will not be “disclosed”. “You people say G5 is dead. We that you said are dead are not worried, but you that is alive is worried. We are not talking again; we are not worried. Yet you are worried. You fail to realise that in politics, there is time for talking and time for action. Action has started and 25th February is the D-day,” he said. “You can never know what our plans and strategies are. No matter how you people pressurise us, we will not disclose our strategy. The more you look, the less you see.” Reacting to the allegations of threats to members of the PDP presidential campaign council in the state by, Wike asked why it was only Abiye Sekibo, director-general of the council in Rivers, who complained about insecurity. Following an attack by gunmen on his way to the presidential campaign rally venue in Rivers, Sekibo accused officers of shooting at the vehicle he was in. Reacting to the development, Wike said Peter Obi, presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), and Rabiu Kwankwaso, candidate of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), campaigned in Rivers, enjoyed logistics provided by the state government, and never complained of threat to life. He added that Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), also applied and got a venue approved for his campaign in the state without complaints of insecurity or threat to life. Wike said Rivers is the most peaceful state in the federation and that nobody can toy with it. He, therefore, asked Sekibo to stop deceiving PDP on the pretext that he will mobilise people for the PDP presidential campaign rally.