Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), says the current scarcity of naira notes is a ploy to ensure the postponement of the general election. Speaking on Friday at the APC presidential campaign rally in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti capital, Tinubu said the endgame of those behind the naira note scarcity is to ensure an interim government instead of election. “They are hoarding naira so that you can be angry and fight. They want confusion so that the election can be postponed. What they want is an interim government. But we are wiser than them. We will not fight. Any rat that eats the rat poison will end up killing itself,” he said. “I am in the race for the betterment of the people. If it is what I will eat and what I need personally, God has provided for me. I am in this race to make life good and better for you too. “Ekiti people are well educated people. They are well read; they don’t joke with education. But it is not good to finish schooling and not get a job. So, we shall provide jobs for you. “On that day, we will trek to the polling booths to cast our votes. Your polling booths are not far from where you live. So, you should walk down to cast your votes. “I believe each and every Nigerian is entitled to a life of dignity and happiness free from the fear of hunger, poverty, violence and hopelessness. I believe we can do better as a nation. I believe we must do better. History calls. Destiny calls. Greatness calls. “I came here today to offer you my best and assure you that I will always work for you. Take a look at my plan and ideas for the nation. You will like them because they were developed out of concern and hope for your welfare and for your future. “Parents, don’t you want your children to enjoy a better life? Young people, don’t you want a nation where you can realise your dreams and also be able to care for your parents, yet nurture and have children of your own? “Join us, elect us so that the government will work to ensure that you have decent jobs, that farmers make a good living, that enough schools and clinics exist. “We will expand industry, assure your peace and safety, make sure that our nation is well fed and without hunger and we shall renew your hope in Nigeria and in your future.” The former Lagos governor also said he would clamp down on insurgents if elected president, adding that protecting Nigerians will be his priority. “Rest assured, my security strategy will be tough on kidnappers, killers, terrorists, and bandits,” Tinubu said. “My national security plan invests heavily on ensuring we have enough active, well trained, and well-equipped security personnel to defeat threats wherever and whenever they emerge. We shall significantly augment the number of active duty personnel. “Moreover, we shall invest in enhanced ground and air surveillance technology so that we can identify, track, outmaneuver, and ultimately defeat those who seek to defeat our democratic and good way of life. They will witness and end their evil doings and terrible ways. “I vow to mobilise the totality of our national security assets to protect all Nigerians from danger and from even the fear of that danger.”