Atiku Abubakar, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has won the presidential election in Osun state. Folashade Ogunsola, the state’s collation officer for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), announced the development on Sunday. Abubakar polled 354,366 votes to defeat Bola Tinubu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who scored 343,945 votes. Peter Obi, the candidate of the Labour Party (LP) got 23,283 votes, while Rabiu Kwankwaso of New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) had 713 votes. Ogunsola said a total of 756,744 votes were cast for the presidential election in the state. She added that a total of 733,203 votes were considered valid votes while 23,541 votes were rejected. Reacting to the victory in a statement, Adekunle Akindele, the caretaker chairperson of PDP in Osun, said the result only reaffirms the validity of Ademola Adeleke’s election as the state’s governor. In January, the Osun governorship election petition tribunal voided Adeleke’s victory at the July 2022 poll and ruled in favour of Gboyega Oyetola of the APC. However, unlike Abubakar’s less-than-11,000-vote margin of victory, the PDP had been declared the winner of the Osun governorship election with a margin of about 25,000 votes. Speaking further on Abubakar’s victory in Osun, Akindele said it reflects the will of the people to align with the PDP. “Saturday was a metaphor of rebuke and sanction by Osun people against the discredited APC and her leaders who foisted years of locust on the state through their evil-minded and anti-people governance style,” he said. “Our people boldly restated their entrenched opposition against the return of yesterday’s men through manipulation of judicial and the political process. “The people not only re-endorsed his Excellency, the Governor, but voters also confirmed their satisfaction, appreciation and happiness with the many pro-people policies and programmes of the new government. “The performance of Governor Adeleke got a thumbs up in a very big way from the Osun people, a very industrious population who equally value any genuine leadership who is truly committed to their well-being.”