The Oyo police command says its operatives have arrested some persons for allegedly stockpiling arms in the state to cause violence while protesting over cash and petrol scarcity. According to NAN, Adebowale Williams, Oyo police commissioner, spoke on Friday in Ibadan during a security summit to douse the tension created by the scarcity. The summit was attended by heads of security agencies, officials of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Independent Petroleum Marketers Association (IPMAN), Association of POS Operators, market leaders, traditional rulers, and religious leaders. Williams said the command had uncovered plans by some groups to launch attacks in parts of Ibadan metropolis, adding that some of them have confessed to smuggling arms into the state. He said the duty of the police is to enforce law and order and, where necessary, maintain peace and arrest perpetrators of crime and prosecute them. Willams said citizens have the right to peaceful protests and assembly but that some individuals use such opportunities to be violent. He appealed for the cooperation of all stakeholders, adding that the police and other security agencies would continue to carry out their mandate of maintaining law and order. “It is important to reiterate that attacks on policemen and other law enforcement agents shall not be tolerated,” he said. “All stakeholders in Oyo state must say ‘no’ to the agents of disintegration in our midst and continue maintaining our renowned reputation of a state with a relatively peaceful ambiance.” Also speaking at the occasion, Foluke Oluduro, CBN controller in the state, appealed to the public to remain calm. Oluduro said the CBN is doing all it can to ensure that the new naira notes are available to residents. She said the introduction of the new naira notes was not aimed at causing hardship for the masses but improving the nation’s economy. On his part, Bayo Adeyemo, IPMAN chief of staff in Oyo, said members of the association have been sourcing for petrol outside Ibadan, as the NNPC depot does not have the product. Adeyemo said the association is doing everything possible to make petrol available at an affordable price.