The European Union Election Observation Mission (EU-EOM) has condemned attacks in Nigeria ahead of the general election. There have been attacks on offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), while candidates and their supporters have also been targeted. On Wednesday, Oyibo Chukwu, candidate of the Labour Party (LP) in Enugu east senatorial district was killed and set ablaze. The presidential and national assembly elections are scheduled to take place on Saturday. In a statement issued on Friday, Barry Andrews, EU-EOM chief observer, said those responsible for such attacks should be arrested and prosecuted. “The EU-EOM condemns the recent acts of severe and coordinated incidents of violence, in particular the recent assassination, and urges authorities to hold those responsible to account,” the statement reads. “EU-EOM chief Observer Barry Andrews calls on all electoral stakeholders to engage in a manner that reflects the spirit of the Peace Accord signed on 22 February – on election day and in the days that follow as votes are counted and tabulated, and results are announced. “Furthermore, we urge security agencies to fulfil their responsibilities and ensure an enabling environment for peaceful elections. “The EU EOM has been following the preparations for the 25 February general elections, including the just concluded campaign activities and the conduct of political parties and candidates as well as other stakeholders. “Any concerns about the conduct of the elections or its outcome should be channelled through designated election tribunals and courts as provided for in the laws of Nigeria. “The EU EOM will continue to observe the electoral process, including the transparency of the election administration, the impartiality of security agencies, and the independence of the judiciary. “The EU Election Observation Mission has been deployed by the European Union upon an invitation from the Independent National Electoral Commission of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”