Chris Nehikhare, Edo commissioner for communication and orientation, has accused Adams Oshiomhole, former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), of allegedly instigating violent protests in the state. TheCable had reported how protests broke out in Benin, Edo state capital, on Wednesday, over the scarcity of naira notes, resulting in the destruction of property. Residents protested in Oluku, Upper Sakponba, New Benin market, and Akpakpava road where the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) branch is located. Speaking with journalists on the development, Nehikhare alleged that Oshiomhole instigated youths to engage in the protest. “In a viral video on social media, he (Oshiomhole) was heard deliberately instigating APC members to go on a rampage and intimidate people in Benin City, destroying government property, and bringing anarchy to the country because the government of his party is about to lose the forthcoming general election,” he said. “I call on security agencies to call Oshiomhole for questioning. He should be interrogated, arrested, and made to account for his movement in Benin City a few days ago. “The political party responsible for this policy is the same party that has sent their APC thugs to destroy the billboards of PDP candidates. PDP is not the government at the centre. “So, it’s clear that this is politically motivated. We are pointing fingers directly at Oshiomhole as he has given a command to his tigers to unleash mayhem and anarchy. He continues to go against the laws of the land because he wants to be part of the next government. “The situation is bad. Edo people should be patient as CBN has assured the Edo state government that there is enough money to go around. CBN believes that they have made the necessary arrangements for naira exchange in the State. “This is a systematic protest organised across the country by the APC. They targeted Edo, Delta, and Oyo states and these states are PDP states. It doesn’t make sense for PDP states to be attacking PDP infrastructure when the policy causing the problems is an APC policy.” Meanwhile, Godwin Obaseki, the governor, has assured residents that the state government is working to ameliorate the hardship caused by cash scarcity. Speaking after meeting with security chiefs in the state, Obaseki said: “Part of the plan is that the security agencies will provide support to the disbursement of cash through POS operators across our markets, and as soon as we can restore safety and sanity to the banks, then the banks will open to disburse cash to our citizens.”