Babagana Zulum, the governor of Borno state, has donated N1 billion as a relief fund to the victims of the fire incident at the popular Monday market in Maiduguri market. The governor, in a statement by Isa Gusau, his spokesperson, announced palliative after paying a visit to the scene of the incident. TheCable reported that a fire incident occurred at the Maiduguri Monday market on Sunday morning. “My fellow people of Borno State. We woke up today with a very sad and unfortunate fire disaster at the Maiduguri Monday market. This is very unfortunate but we believe that this is decreed by Allah. Inna lillahi Wa inna ilayhi raajiun,” the statement reads. “I feel deeply pained by this incident and I know how painful it is for anyone to work hard over years to build his or her business but end up losing that investment in seconds. I really feel the pains of everyone affected by this incident. “I commiserate with all of you. I kindly and most respectfully urge you to be calm and patient. I know how bad you feel and insha’Allah, the Borno State Government is already taking the following measures to ameliorate the situation. “I have approved the release of one billion naira as emergency relief for us to quickly support victims of the disaster because we know that some of them may even have difficulty of surviving the next few days. Many rely on daily businesses in order to cater for themselves. Zulum said his administration has set up an assessment committee to give a detailed report on the extent of the damage caused. The governor said he would meet with President Muhammadu Buhari and “other humanitarian establishments” to seek for additional support. “We are setting up an assessment committee that will comprise respectable individuals from our society including representatives of the victims, for us to speedily assess damages, and take a comprehensive list of those affected and their losses. I will also be holding meetings with leadership of the market and representatives of victims. “I am going to see Mr President and seek for presidential intervention on how to get support for victims,” he said. “We will also reach out to other humanitarian establishments to seek help. “Insha’Allah, we will be taking firm measures towards preventing the reoccurrence of this fire disaster that has occurred in previous years. He warned residents not to politicise the incident, saying this is not the first the market would experience such an event. “In the meantime, I urge us not to politicize this unfortunate incident. I recognize that the incident is happening at a political time, but we all know the Monday market has unfortunately faced fire disasters in previous times and this is sad. “We have to find ways of ensuring this unfortunate fire disaster does not happen again and we will work together to ensure this, bi iznillah.”