The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has asked the federal government to investigate all security agencies, particularly the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), over the recent airstrike in Nasarawa. Khalid Aliyu, secretary-general of the group, in a statement on Thursday, said the victims of the incident are yet to receive support from the federal government. On January 25, more than 30 herders were reportedly killed following an airstrike in Kwateri, Doma LGA of Nasarawa. Aliyu said the federal government needs to ensure a diligent probe into the incident. “As a matter of fact, some sources claimed helicopters bombed the victims, while others said it was a horrific sporadic coordinated attack from different angles on the victims, a very heart-rending and mind-boggling situation,” the statement reads. “But for how long shall innocent defenceless Nigerians continue to suffer cruel termination of their lives and utter destruction of their property? “It is an understatement to say that we have become so much terrified. The carnage was one incident too many to bear. “It should be stated that this singular act of heartlessness in Doma was a calculated attempt to instill fear among farmers and herders, so as to jeopardise the frantic efforts of mutual harmony that has been built by the relevant stakeholders, especially the Nasarawa state government, in recent years. “For how long would we continue to wait in vain? For how long, shall we continue to condemn acts of terrorism without any concerted efforts at ending it? And for how long would we continue to suffer hopelessness and despair such as what we have just witnessed in Doma? “We nonetheless also call on the federal government, as a matter of urgency, to investigate all its security agencies, especially the Nigerian Air Force, based on the alleged use of helicopter gunships and drones in the Doma massacre to do well beyond condemnation, and fish out the perpetrators. “Nigerians are desperately yearning for concrete actions.” The Islamic body called on the federal government to offer compensation to the families of the victims, adding that necessary action should be taken to avoid future occurrences.