President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the work plan for the National Climate Change Council (NCCC). The work plan is expected to provide a sustainable framework for climate-related activities in Nigeria. In 2021, TheCable reported the passage of the climate change bill which made provisions for the NCCC. A year later, the president appointed Salisu Dahiru as the director-general of the council. According to a statement issued on Friday by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, the council’s work plan was approved at its inaugural meeting. The president also approved the proposed institutional arrangement (organogram), as well as the deployment of staff from key ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) to the council. He said the council will now have a conducive environment for the development of the first phase of the open market carbon trading framework and infrastructure in collaboration with M/S Rosehill Group Limited. ‘‘Today with this inaugural meeting, and in line with the objectives of the Act, also in tandem with my commitments both in Glasgow COP-26 in 2021 and Sharm el Sheikh COP-27 in 2022, we are stepping up commitments by considering the consolidated memorandum presented by the Director-General,” Buhari was quoted as saying. ‘‘Accordingly, I have examined the requests by the Director-General and have agreed to the general terms of the intent of the memorandum on the need to operationalize the Council. ‘‘You will recall that during the inauguration of the Council in September, 2022, I gave directives for the amendment of the Act establishing the National Council on Climate Change, to include the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Federal Ministry of Science & Technology and Innovation as members of Council, also to reduce the number of offices across 36 States of the Federation to avoid bureaucracy, and ensure a smooth and faster process in achieving the purpose of the Organization. ‘‘I also noted that the Act takes out the State Commissioners of Environment as members of Council or their representatives. There is no transitional provision capturing the work of the Inter-Ministerial Working Group on Energy Transition. ‘‘Furthermore, there is provision for the establishment of an Executive Management Structure at the Secretariat to support the Director-General in running the Council Secretariat etc. ‘‘I however note the update earlier presented by the Honourable Attorney General of the Federation on the amendment efforts and hereby direct the Attorney General to liaise with the Honourable Minister of Environment to proceed on the amendment processes and report back to Council.”