The federal government has inaugurated a diplomatic duty-free village in Abuja where diplomats can buy items and enjoy tax-free services in the country. The village, according to the federal government, was established in compliance with the United Nations Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations which exempts diplomats from all duties and taxes, whether national, regional, or municipal. Speaking at the inauguration on Tuesday, Zubairu Dada, minister of state, foreign affairs, said the facility would help in reducing the level of shipment by individual diplomats. He described the facility as a one-stop shopping village that will take care of all the needs of the diplomats in Abuja, even as he assured them of their safety. “No doubt, the services provided by the duty-free facility will drastically reduce the volume of diplomatic shipments into the country,” the minister said. “It is my hope that the services of the duty-free facility will further provide an additional platform and opportunity for members of the diplomatic community to enjoy this dividend stay in our country. “I understand that the facility has different interesting and top-notch sections ranging from shopping centre, recreational services, spa, eye centre, restaurants, clinic, etc. “This affirms that the federal government of Nigeria has so far demonstrated its commitment towards ensuring the success of the duty-free facility by giving the needed support for each operation. “Which will by no small measure, contribute immensely to the economic growth of Nigeria.” On her part, Zainab Ahmed, minister of finance and national planning, said the establishment of the facility was important to ensure coordination of imports for the diplomats. She said the diplomatic immunities and privileges act of 1962 empowers the ministry of finance to exempt diplomats from all taxes including diplomats enjoying duty-free shopping facilities in several countries. According to Ahmed, the village will have strict control or cessation of individual requests for waivers on imported items by diplomats which presently, is largely uncoordinated and originated. Th minister said the duty-free facility will enable the government to maintain a database of products. Also speaking, Uche Odozor, managing director of the village, said the village would improve diplomatic relations between Nigeria and representatives of other countries and multilateral institutions in the country. Odozor also said it was fulfilling to see the unveiling of an edifice that started in 2010.