The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) says it has deployed 102,000 personnel to monitor elections across the country. In a statement on Tuesday by Olusola Odumosu, NSCDC director of public relations, Ahmed Audi, commandant-general of the NSCDC, said the personnel are fully prepared to provide general safety for voters. Audi said the NSCDC initiated an operational and deployment plan to prevent assault or violence on the electorate during and after the elections. He also said the command deployed its officers to ensure all forms of electoral fraud, including vote buying, are prevented. “The corps would be deploying a total number of one hundred and two thousand (102,000) personnel for the presidential/national assembly and governorship/state assembly elections coming up on February 25th and March 11th, 2023, respectively,” the statement reads. “In addition, there would be the deployment of the anti-vandalism squad and special forces to all critical national assets and infrastructure, including flashpoints in the states and the FCT, to protect them against vandalism, damage or arson by criminal elements before, during and after the elections. “To have a successful execution of this assignment, the corps shall engage officers from the special forces, such as arms squad unit, counter-terrorism, chemical, biological radiological and explosives unit (CBRNE), female squad, Rapid Response Squad (RRR), K9 and SWAT unit, different from the regular conventional personnel. “Our specially trained undercover personnel have been dispatched from each command to work effectively with other security agencies to maintain surveillance, and provide intelligence reports and updates on the security situation in different states, especially on flashpoints.” The commandant-general said field operations during the polls would be overseen by state commandants. He also said a monitoring team comprising the deputy commandant-general (DCG) of operations, other DCGs, zonal commanders and senior officers will monitor the electoral process across the country. He urged the personnel deployed for the elections to discharge their duties according to the corps’ operational code and the rule of law, adding that those who flout the rules would be sanctioned. “Officers of the corps have been well trained to operate with humility and integrity in delivering service to the nation, therefore, there will be no compromise,” he added. “They are to acquaint themselves with the provisions of the electoral act as regards the rules of engagement for the overall success of the elections.”