Femi Gbajabiamila, the speaker of the house of representatives, says the scarcity of petrol and naira notes in the country are designed to stop Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), from winning the election. Gbajabiamila spoke in Lagos, on Tuesday, during the launch of the second phase of a transport initiative, “Gbaja Ride”, designed to empower Surulere constituents. He also alleged that the petrol crisis and the cash crunch were caused by “some elements” to derail the successes of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. The speaker said the naira redesign is a well-thought-out policy, which has been hijacked and politicised. He said the plot seems to be failing as Nigerians are still keeping faith with the APC and Tinubu despite what they are going through. “Nobody can convince me that it is not a plot to stop Asiwaju from becoming the president of this country,” Gbajabiamila was quoted by NAN as saying. “But I am glad that our God is a wonderful being, as the plot these people sat together to hatch, he has intervened. “I have followed the campaign team to the east, north, and everywhere with Asiwaju and I doff my hat for Nigerians.” He said the house of representatives is working hard to rescue citizens from the current hardships by bringing relief as soon as possible. “As your representative and speaker, I have a good understanding of the current hardships and discomfort being faced by many Nigerians, without exception to my constituents,” he said. “The lower legislative chamber under my leadership has been on the side of the people, working tirelessly to rescue them from these difficulties. “I am glad that the judiciary has also confirmed our position on the implementation of the policy of naira redesign.” Gbajabiamila urged Nigerians to cast their votes for Tinubu in the election, saying the APC candidate would not disappoint if elected. He said none of the candidates vying for the presidency has the capacity or competence to lead the country, except Tinubu. Speaking on the “Gbaja ride”, the speaker said the first edition kicked off in June 2018 with 30 buses,160 motorcycles, and 25 tricycles. He said it was designed to empower the constituents and ease movements, noting that the second phase has been better structured to offer better bus services to the people of Surulere at very low fares. Gbajabiamila said the new 35 buses would be run in partnership with members of the Lagos State Park and Garages Administrators and that many routes would be covered by the buses. He added that the buses would offer free rides to teachers, students, and residents who are above 70 years.