Babagana Monguno, national security adviser (NSA), says there are plots to use the naira scarcity to cause civil unrest during the general election. Monguno, who was represented by Sanusi Galadima, a deputy director, spoke on Tuesday during a meeting of the inter-agency consultative committee on election security (ICCES). He commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for its determination to ensure free and credible elections. The NSA said his office has observed with “serious concern, the escalation of violence during electioneering campaigns across the country, despite the peace accord endorsed by all the presidential flag bearers”. “This ugly trend is created largely by the attitude of political actors, their sponsored thugs and other unpatriotic elements. This has further hampered the efforts of security and intelligence agencies to effectively neutralise the prevailing security situation across the country, terrorism, banditry,” he said. “It is instructive to state that the government is very much aware of plots by domestic subversive elements and their external collaborators to use the current socio economic climate in the country due to well intended government policies to organize civil unrest during the election. “In this vein and in line with Mr. President’s commitment to ensure a peaceful transition of political power to a democratically elected government through free, fair and credible election, security agents have been charged to ensure lawful deployment to deal decisively with any individual or group involved, no matter how highly placed.” Also speaking at the meeting, Mahmood Yakubu, INEC chairman, said he was confident that the security agencies would do all it takes to ensure the security of lives and property, during and after the elections “The commission is aware that security agencies are going to protect not only our officials and facilities but also accredited observers, journalists, service providers and above all, the voters themselves,” he said.