Journalists for Democratic Rights (JODER), a civil society organisation (CSO), is set to organise a summit on reducing election violence through youth mobilisation. In a statement on Wednesday, JODER said the event will bring together youth leaders of strategic ethnic and community-based groups to work out a peace-building and conflict prevention module. Describing Nigeria as fragile, the CSO said the country is currently at the mercy of political actors who use violence as a weapon. It added that the one-day summit will lead to the development of a framework for youth and religious leaders to mobilise their members against violence and conflict. “Elections in Nigeria are associated with conflict, and civil society groups have important roles to play in peace building. The media in particular is key to setting agenda for setting agenda for and prosperity before, during and after the elections,” the statement by Adewale Adeoye, JODER executive director, reads. “Nigerians are organised along several non-formal institutions. Anytime there’s conflict, these groups are vulnerable. They can be manipulated by political actors. “By bringing the groups together, JODER hopes to strengthen the existing network in rural communities for collective action against violence. “We believe the prevention of conflict in these areas will have a chain impact on the wellbeing of the country at large. “Some of the most outstanding presidential candidates represent the four largest ethnic groups. There is also a religious dimension to the election. The civil society engagement is necessary to set the agenda for peaceful co-existence among Nigeria’s diverse groups.” The group also accused politicians of fanning the flame of division through their actions and utterances, making the election look like “war”. It said the group will intensify its advocacy in the coming days to strengthen the existing network of peace advocates and monitors to drive the force of conflict prevention in Nigeria. “The rhetoric of violence dominates the mainstream and social media. We need to change this narrative. The people should be energised for collective, rural, and urban solidarity against violence,” the group added.