The Concerned Yoruba Muslim Scholars in Nigeria (CYMSN), a religious group, has declared support for Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The scholars, in collaboration with other stakeholders, organised a prayer session for Tinubu and the peaceful conduct of the general election. The prayer session took place on Monday at the national mosque in Abuja and was presided over by Abdurrasheed Mayaleke, president of the group. While delivering his welcome address, Abideen Olaiya, secretary-general of the group, said Nigerians will experience good governance if Tinubu is elected president. “We are an organisation working for the peaceful transition of the electoral process. We organised this prayer as an intercessional prayer for divine favour from Almighty Allah to make the transition that is ongoing peaceful and successful, because the situation of things in the country has always been at precarious,” Olaiya said. “The fuel scarcity and the naira redesign policy crisis, among others, are giving us serious concern. And we have gathered to pray to Almighty God to give us intervention so that we can have a smooth and peaceful conduct of the electoral process. “We are equally praying for the victory of Asiwaju and Shettima’s presidential project. The Ummah has sat severally and we have taken our decision to endorse the presidential project of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Kashim Shettima. “We are equally praying that Almighty Allah will give them victory in the upcoming elections. And we are equally praying that Almighty Allah should make them be able to deliver good governance to Nigerians because Nigerians are seriously yearning for a capable and competent leader to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari.” The secretary-general urged politicians to be cautious of their speeches and activities to avoid disrupting the electoral process. “We are advising the political leaders to take it easy. This situation with the electorate is not as rosy as it were. We want the politicians not to unnecessarily heat up the polity by making statements that can destabilise the country,” he added. “This election has been planned over the last two years. We hope that the politicians would not make any mistake that can make anybody come and say ‘Fellow Nigerians’ again. The politicians should not make any mistake that can truncate the electoral process.”