A faith-based non-governmental organisation (NGO), Obey The Macedonia Call (OTMC), has advised Nigerians to work deliberately towards ensuring that the forthcoming elections are peaceful. The presidential and national assembly elections are scheduled for February 25, while the governorship and state house of assembly polls will hold on March 11. In a statement on Wednesday by Ladi Thompson, founder of the OTMC’s Macedonian Initiative, the organisation said Nigeria’s multi-religious and multi-ethnic peculiarities should not be sources of division. The group also advised Nigerians to remain united towards ensuring sustainable growth. “The good news we bring in this hour is that we have examined all the contributing factors and can announce a simple solution that will be a game-changer,” the statement reads. “Opinions will always differ on how things should be done in a multi-ethnic, multi-religious, and multi-generational country like ours. More so when the trauma of our violent past and painful experiences has never been healed. “Yet, the truth is that the average Nigerian citizen, north, south, east and west are peace-loving, trusting, and patient at heart. So, why can’t we rise beyond the engineered divisions and stress to deploy the creative African advantage that defines our heritage? “In order to de-escalate the present tensions, we need to consider the fact that most of us mean well. In a sense, we are all victims of history, from the president to the peasant! Our greatest problems are systemic in nature, and we must not allow anyone to lead us on a self-destructive path. “Nigerians should cool down, lower their voices, and embrace non-violent communication with proverbs since it is better to jaw-jaw than war-war. “Also, let all God-fearing people meet with others in the neighbourhoods and resident associations to agree on strategies to keep their streets peaceful and safe for children. “Let each household store essential food to last a few days and encourage the rationing and sharing of all resources within neighbourhood clusters. “It is imperative that we make and keep the peace throughout Nigeria next week while we work in cooperation with Nigerians and well-wishers in the diaspora who are praying and offering their support for the peaceful conduct of elections.”