Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and other dignitaries witnessed the landing of the maiden test flight at the Gateway International Agro-Cargo Airport in Ikene, Ogun state. Speaking at the occasion, Osinbajo commended the state government for reviving the airport — a project conceived 14 years ago. He said the achievement exemplified actions that could build a modern Nigeria, according to a tweet on Thursday by Laolu Akande, his spokesperson. “This is how we build a modern and prosperous Nigeria,” Osinbajo said. VP Osinbajo headlines Official landing of maiden flight into Gateway International Agro-Cargo Airport in Ikenne LGA. "This is how we build a modern & prosperous Nigeria," VP says commending Gov Abiodun.The new cargo airport opens up a Special Eco. Processing Zone. Pix:Tolani Alli pic.twitter.com/diRFURwzov — Laolu Akande (@akandeoj) February 23, 2023  Also celebrating the milestone, Dapo Abiodun, governor of Ogun state, said his administration has achieved “the unthinkable within our first four years in office”. “The first air plane touching-down and taking-off at the Gateway International Agro-Cargo Airport in Iperu-Ilishan in Ogun state,” he tweeted. The first air plane touching-down and taking-off at the Gateway International Agro-Cargo Airport in Iperu-Ilishan in Ogun State. We've achieved the unthinkable within our first 4 years in office. History that won’t be forgotten!#BuildingOurFutureTogether #ISEYA #OgunState pic.twitter.com/59POxiboGA — Prince Dr. Dapo Abiodun – MFR (@dabiodunMFR) February 23, 2023  The agro-cargo airport was conceptualised in 2009 with a goal to stimulate the state’s economy. But construction started in April 2021. In November 2022, Abiodun had said the $400 million special agro-industrial processing zone (SAPZ) project, sited at the agro-cargo airport will be executed by the state government in partnership with Arise Integrated Industrial Platforms. He said apart from the SAPZ, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) had decided to situate one of its biggest facilities in the airport. In a statement, Ade Akinsanya, Ogun commissioner for works and infrastructure, said the airport would also stimulate the growth of other sectors “such as commerce and agriculture as well as tourism opportunities”. “It would increase economic activities through the provision of employment for not less than 25,000 people through the agricultural value chain,” he said. Here are pictures from the event   