The Bayelsa state government has denied joining the suit challenging the naira swap policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The Society Organisations Central Coordinating Council (CSOCCC), at a media conference in Abuja on Tuesday, had mentioned Douye Diri, governor of Bayelsa as one of 10 governors opposing the naira redesign policy. But in a statement on Wednesday by Ayibaina Duba, Bayelsa commissioner for information, orientation, and strategy, the state government said the allegations are “baseless and provocative”. Duba said when the governor spoke publicly for the first time about the policy at a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) campaign launch in Kaduna, his comments in support of the policy were “unflattering and unambiguous”. He said Diri explained that while he is not in support of the common man suffering as a result of the CBN policy, it will change the attitude of leaders for the better. “The government is particularly dismayed that CSOs that should be better informed rather yielded themselves as agent-provocateur to misinform Nigerians,” the statement reads. “The government urges the CSOs to go study the papers that some states filed at the Supreme Court on the new notes suit instead of spreading falsehood. “For the avoidance of doubt, governor Diri is not opposed to the Naira re-design policy of the CBN or the Federal Government. What he is opposed to is the hardship the implementation of the policy has visited on Nigerians. “The Bayelsa government thus challenges the CSOs, if their motive was not a hatchet job that eventually misfired, to show contrary proof. “If their intention was not borne out of mischief, why include Governor Diri, a PDP governor, among his colleagues of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that are purportedly against a decision taken by their ruling party in government? “By his disposition, Governor Diri at all times, in his deeds and actions, promotes the peace and unity of Nigeria. He would therefore not engage in any activity that would undermine his party or even the corporate existence of the country.”