Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), says the achievements of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration must be preserved. Speaking on Monday when he inaugurated a 22-member presidential transition council to coordinate the transition to the next administration, Mustapha said the current administration improved the fortunes of the country and learned lessons that will be helpful for the new administration. He added that the present administration’s achievements must be documented and communicated in clear terms, so that “the incoming administration understands what we have done, the basis of our decisions, what we achieved, and the opportunities for continuity”. “I enjoin each of us to put in even more effort in ensuring the next administration receives every support needed to make an early and quick start. In a few months, it will be eight years that the Buhari administration has been in power,” he said. “Our achievements must be preserved. To maximise the limited time we have, Mr. President has directed the chairperson of the council to convene the inaugural meeting of the council with immediate effect. “This aims to kick off the transition process across all levels of government in line with executive order No. 14 of 2023. “The president expects that the transition process will be replicated across state governments.” Mustapha also said the current administration has shown its continued commitment to supporting important institutions of governance that assist democratic processes. “Although the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria sets out the overarching framework for the assumption of office of the president, this is the first time in our history as a country that the Federal Government of Nigeria will be establishing a detailed process for managing presidential transitions of government at the federal level,” he said. “It is with great delight and honour, therefore, that I am carrying out the onerous task of inaugurating the presidential transition council, on behalf of the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “In line with executive order No. 14 of 2023, the council is charged with the responsibility of facilitating and managing the 2023 presidential transition programme.” He said the council would facilitate the handover process by the current president to the president-elect; organise the security of the president-elect and the vice-president-elect, including coordinating security briefings on security matters. “Other mandates of the council are to organise the necessary facilities including fully furnished office and personnel for the president-elect and his/her transition team; co-ordinate the briefings of the president-elect by relevant public officers; facilitate communication between the outgoing president and the president-elect; prepare the programme and organise for the swearing-in ceremony; carry out any other activity necessary to ensure optimal performance of the functions of the president,” he added.