Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Saturday, asked residents of Adamawa state to see the forthcoming election as a golden opportunity to elect him as president. Speaking at the campaign rally, which is the finale for the party ahead of the presidential election scheduled to hold on February 25, Atiku said he won’t disappoint the people if elected. The former vice-president said he is committed to the five-point agenda in his manifesto and would ensure all the promises are kept. “Let me promise Nigerians that we shall never disappoint you. If you give us your mandate, we promise to live by our promises to make sure that we have a united and peaceful country,” Atiku said. “That we have a buoyant economy for our country and the best education for our children, and also devolve powers to our states and local governments with corresponding resources. “These are the five key points that the PDP has promised to deliver. Therefore, I want to reiterate my commitment to these five key points. “In Adamawa state, you know that this is the golden opportunity for you if you elect PDP to the presidency; if you elect the PDP to continue governing the state. I don’t have to tell you what I can do for Adamawa, the north-east and Nigeria in general. You know that I live by my words and by my commitment. “I, therefore, want to appeal to you to make sure you vote for PDP from bottom to top. Don’t allow yourselves to be misled by any propaganda by anybody. This is where the future of our state and the country resides — in the hands of PDP. “I want to appeal to you to make sure that you vote for all PDP candidates from the state assembly to the presidency. And I know you’re going to do that because you have never failed us.” Atiku further asked the residents to re-elect Ahmadu Fintiri, governor of Adamawa, to “continue to advance the progress of our state”. “He is passionate about education as I am. The combination of the two of us, I am sure, will make Adamawa state, particularly in the field of education, a leading light in this country,” the former vice-president said. “You must not forget that Nigerians have been very kind to you. They elected me in 2019 to lead this party and again they were not disappointed. They elected me for the second time. “I appeal to you not to disappoint the rest of Nigeria for the favour they have done to you in this state.” Below are photos.        