Ben Llewelyn-Jones, British deputy high commissioner to Nigeria, says the UK government has spent £10 million on elections in Nigeria since 2019. Speaking in an interview with the NAN on Saturday, the envoy said the money was spent on the improvement of Nigerian government institutions, civil societies and observers around the electoral architecture. He expressed confidence that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would overcome logistics challenges ahead of the elections. “We have been working very closely with INEC and we have spent over £10 million since 2019; not just on them as that money went into capacity building for Nigerian government institutions, civil societies and observers who have been working closely with INEC,” Llewelyn-Jones said. “We are impressed with steps that have been taken as we know there is still a lot do, especially in terms of logistic challenges, but INEC is very experienced and they would overcome the challenges. “We encourage Nigerians to work and cooperate with INEC as there will always be challenges, but Nigerians should remain supportive.” The envoy said the UK government is committed to imposing visa restrictions on politicians found guilty of undermining democratic processes. He said politicians must desist from vote buying and ensure all electoral disputes are resolved using legal and peaceful means without resorting to violence. “My advice to politicians in the upcoming elections is that they should respect the process as the new technology is there to ensure that people can vote, and that must be respected,” Llewelyn-Jones said. “If the politicians have a problem or dispute, then the use of legal or peaceful processes should be carried out and if their supporters are angry, ensure peaceful protests and avoid any form of violence. “Most importantly, politicians must desist from buying votes as the right thing is to tell people to vote for you because of what you would do and not by buying votes to convince them to vote for you. “It is imperative of politicians and people to do the right things as the UK government is committed to issuing visa restrictions where it is aware of attempts to subvert the democratic process.” The Nigerian general election will commence with the presidential poll on February 25.