The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential campaign council says Bola Tinubu, presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is not concerned about the effects of the naira scarcity on Nigerians. In a statement issued on Friday, Kola Ologbondiyan, spokesperson of the campaign, said if Tinubu was concerned about Nigerians, he would have asked the government to correct the economic policies affecting Nigerians. Ologbondiyan said the APC candidate is only concerned about how the naira scarcity affects his presidential ambition but not Nigerians. “Tinubu set the stage for the national economic setback of our nation and must take responsibility for his actions,” the statement reads. “The Atiku/Okowa campaign recalls how Tinubu led a vicious anti-people campaign against the introduction of gradual removal of fuel subsidy which had accompanying palliatives that was cushioning the effects of the subsidy on Nigerians. “Our campaign is already aware that Nigerians know that Tinubu is not worried about fuel and new naira notes scarcity but concerned that the situation was affecting his life ambition of turning Nigeria into his economic empire and fiefdom. “If Tinubu was ever concerned about Nigerians, what effort did he make to get the government where he is the national leader to address the worsening economy, the abysmal living standard, and our national descent as one of the fastest growing economies of the world under the PDP to the poverty capital of the world under his APC? “It is on record that under this government, which he brought into power and made many appointments into, inflation and unemployment have galloped, millions of Nigerians have lost their jobs and many more can no longer afford their daily meals due to the astronomical cost of living. What were the consoling words of Tinubu to Nigerians? “It is also important to ask Tinubu the advice he provided his government when Nigerians began to take their own lives by jumping into the lagoon in Lagos State out of frustration while others were forced into slavery mission abroad as an option to dying of hunger and acute poverty under Tinubu’s APC. “While Nigerians were suffering these untold hardships, Tinubu had no words of consolation for them. He only remembered the cost of the naira, the non-availability of fuel, and the new cash crunch when he mounted a soapbox to campaign for his failed Presidential life ambition. “How can Tinubu posture as if he has concern for Nigerians whereas, in the almost eight years when banditry, kidnapping, and acts of terrorism in the north and other parts of the country went on unchecked with mindless killings, maiming, and wanton destruction of public and private property, he had nothing to say. “It is clear that Tinubu is not interested in our national challenges but in the Presidential race for his “Emilokan” agenda.” The PDP added that Nigerians “are set to reject him with a shattering defeat on February 25”.