Olorunnimbe Mamora, minister of science, technology and innovation, says the federal government is committed to the reduction of global warming by 47 percent. The minister spoke on Wednesday at the national forum and award ceremony of the global environment facility (GEF) – United Nations Development Organisation (UNIDO), organised for the Global Cleantech Innovation Programme (GCIP) in Nigeria. In 2022, the federal government inaugurated a project steering committee for GCIP — a programme designed to unleash the potential of clean-tech innovation and entrepreneurship, and respond to the increasing global demand for environmental sustainability and climate action. The minister, represented by Peter Ekweozoh, director of environmental sciences and technology, said Nigeria must get involved actively in the reduction of global warming. “I have to appreciate UNIDO for what is happening tonight from the depth of my heart. The journey to this day began a long time ago and I am super grateful for how far we have come,” the minister said. “And I want to let you know that this stage is very necessary for the scale of things. Nigeria has signed the Paris agreement goal and it started operation in 2020. We have equally deposited the protocol nationally determined contribution and we pledged to be committed to reducing global warming by 47 percent; 27 percent commission and 20 percent non-commission, but it’s an industrious programme and we’ve pledged to do this in certain sectors. “These sectors are key and live wire of the nation, which means if we don’t take a leap, a small step, such as we are trying to do today, It’ll be very very difficult to accomplish certain goals by 2030, let alone get it done by 2060. Therefore, it is critical we take these steps.” According to the minister, the event was put together to celebrate top innovators and entrepreneurs in the climate change sector that have created key technologies to combat global warming. “I am happy today that we are trying to showcase the first product of GCIP Nigeria and by tomorrow when the project steering committee will meet, we’d be able to talk to ourselves and brainstorm and share best practices so that this second year will be better than last year,” he said. “Federal ministry of science, technology and innovation is ever ready to work with the private, public and all Nigerians to deploy great technology throughout the country. In demonstrating that capacity, we’ve been able to conclude technology needs assessment, first in PVC sectors, nursing sectors, etc. “The national technology action plan will be approved by the federal executive council. As soon as that is done, that document will be available to all of you, the private sector, in which case the capacity and access to climate finance will be met this year for the young people, especially for researchers in the universities, entrepreneurs in all categories. “This will be one of those complimentary projects that will actually add to the number that we are looking at in terms of critical mass. Also, in the coming weeks, the federal ministry of science, technology and innovation will be making landmark interventions in key sectors and we are going to start with the energy sector.”