Mohammad Abubakar, the minister of agriculture and rural development says the country is now self-sufficient in rice production through sustained investment in the value chain. Abubakar spoke at a workshop tagged, ‘strengthening the rice value chain in Nigeria’ in Abuja on Thursday. The minister said the rice value chain had been the focal point of the agricultural transformation agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration through sustained investment and other development partners. He said the country is now 75 percent self-sufficient in rice production. Abubakar, represented by Usman Bashir, deputy director of rice value chain, federal department of agriculture, said the ministry had developed and launched the national rice development strategy (NRDS) II from 2021 to 2026 in collaboration with partners to serve as a framework for the development of the rice sub-sector in the country. He said the NRDS is a private sector-driven initiative aimed at leveraging the linkages between the public and private sectors to provide an impetus for the transformation of the rice value chain through innovation and sustainable investment. Abubakar said the ministry had provided critical support to strengthen each segment of the commodity value chain through research and innovation by affiliated institutions. He also said institutions have the mandate of the development of improved varieties and new farming technologies for rice crops, among others. The minister, however, said despite the giant strides made by the country in the sub-sector, there were gaps that needed urgent attention by all stakeholders to achieve the set objective of self-sufficiency. “The gaps include lack of comprehensive data on all key indices and players in the sub-sector, provision of affordable mechanisation services for increased efficiency and productivity,” he said. “Access to affordable and quality inputs such as fertiliser, seeds and pesticides, access to flexible financing, among others. “Tackling these challenges will require a concerted effort by all stakeholders in the rice value chain through constructive interaction.” On his part, Aminu Goronyo, president, Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), assured that the group would partner with the financial sector to address all challenges bedeviling the industry. Goronyo, represented by Muhammad Alibaba, his special assistant, said finance was key, adding that successes recorded in rice production were achieved through the central bank’s anchor borrowers programme. He further called for effective, sustained, and easily accessible financing in order to take advantage of all the challenges affecting business opportunities.