Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, chairman of the elders’ council of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, says there are plans to hold a security summit in the south-east. Iwuanyanwu, who is a former member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) board of trustees (BoT), spoke on Saturday in Owerri, Imo’s capital. Iwuanyanwu said the summit would be held after the elections. He said the summit would provide the opportunity for stakeholders in the south-east to discuss solutions that would end the insecurity in the geo-political zone. “In the past few months, I have watched with deep grief the amount of innocent blood being shed in south-east and other parts of Nigeria,” he said. “Properties belonging to government and individuals have been destroyed. This situation has caused me considerable pain and concern. I decided to take the liberty of my position as the chairman, of the elders’ council of Ohanaeze Ndigbo to call an emergency meeting. “At the meeting, the security situation of the south-east was critically examined. Elders expressed concern over the deteriorating security, social and economic conditions in the region. The elders resolved that the solution to this problem does not lie in bloodshed. “For the first time in our history, we witnessed Igbos killing innocent Igbos for no just cause. When we recall that Igbos lost over two million people during the civil war, I see no reason why we should shed more blood in Igboland. “I plead with our people to allow peace to reign by ensuring that the elections in the south-east are peaceful. The elders, therefore, unanimously resolved to hold a peace summit. “The peace summit will allow the youths to air their grievances and I promise on behalf of the council of elders to resolve the problems to the best of our ability. “As a father of the youths in Igboland, I humbly appeal to all concerned to sheath their sword and accept a cease-fire to allow elections to take place in the south-east devoid of any bloodshed.” RELEASE OF NNAMDI KANU Iwuanyanwu said the elders’ council of Ohanaeze Ndigbo is “working tirelessly” to ensure the unconditional release of Nnamdi Kanu. “We will not rest on our oars until he gets his freedom,” he said. He said Kanu, including Simon Ekpa, his follower, will be invited to the meeting. “At the peace summit, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and some of his supporters including Mazi Simon Ekpa will be expected to attend in person or send representatives,” he said. “I, on behalf of the elders assure the youths that nobody will victimise them for participating in the peace summit. We need absolute peace in the south-east which is what we are known for,” Iwuanyanwu added.