The Interfaith Dialogue Forum for Peace (IDFP) has raised concerns over possible threats to the successful conduct of the general election. The IDFP is a 120-member national interfaith and intercultural organisation that promotes religious and ethnic unity. In a statement by Amos Kiri and Yusuf Arrigasiyyu, co-chairs of the forum, the group highlighted concerns such as security threats, scarcity of naira notes, and divisive politics. “Nigeria’s politics is greatly divided across religious, ethnic, regional, and political party lines. The emerging trend of religious leaders, political actors and groups openly endorsing candidates based on primordial sentiments portends a threat to democratic ideals,” the statement reads. “These actions are further deepening the divide between groups and creating a sense of disillusionment among the citizenry. “Since the rollout of the new naira notes, Nigerians have suffered untold hardship in their attempts to access the new currencies for their daily needs and businesses. The naira redesign may have been intended to help the economy but ordinary citizens have faced the brutal brunt of this policy. “The elections are set to take place against a backdrop of violent conflicts, armed banditry, terrorism and heightened insecurity across more than two-thirds of Nigeria’s landscape. Similarly, the culture of impunity for abuses by security forces and other actors during the general elections remains a concern. “There have also been security threats from multiple groups across the country who have been trying to undermine the elections. “Past elections have witnessed incidences of poor delivery of election logistics in transporting materials to all polling units at the stated time and this time, the issue may be compounded by the issue of fuel scarcity.” The forum said the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) needs to ensure proper functionality of the bimodal voter accreditation system (BVAS), just as it advised candidates to accept the election outcome. While commenting on ways to ensure transparent elections, the forum said improving security, ending impunity, and tackling fake news will go a long way to deliver free, fair and credible elections.