The “interim leadership” of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) has dissociated itself from factions endorsing presidential candidates of other parties. On Monday, some chieftains of the party led by Ralph Nwosu declared their support for Peter Obi, the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP). However, another faction had, over the weekend, endorsed Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Weeks ago, Biyi Otegbeye, the governorship candidate of the ADC in Ogun state,  declared his support for Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Meanwhile, Dumebi Kachikwu is listed by the Independent National Electoral Commission as the ADC presidential candidate. In a statement on Monday, Patricia Akwashiki, identified as the chairperson of the party’s board of trustees, described those involved in the endorsements as “impostors” and “impersonators”. “We are appalled that renegades who are no longer known to the ADC can constitute themselves into a criminal gang to perpetuate illegalities all in the name of making quick money,” Akwashiki said. “This condemnable action will not stop our party or its presidential candidate from running the race to the very end. “We are determined to ensure that the bright chances of all ADC candidates in the forthcoming general election are not sold or mortgaged as was the practice in the past. “The arm of the law will soon catch up with all those responsible for these criminal and shameful activities.” In September 2022, the Nwosu-led executive expelled Dumebi Kachikwu, the ADC presidential candidate, as well as chairpersons of the party in 17 states over alleged anti-party activities. Shortly after the announcement, members of the party, who identified themselves as the “interim leadership” of the ADC, dismissed the expulsion of Kachikwu on the grounds that Nwosu’s tenure had elapsed. Meanwhile, on December 2o22, a federal high court in Abuja nullified the executive committee of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) led by Nwosu and declared all the actions of the executive committee null and void.