Three police officers attached to the explosives ordinance department (EOD) of the Delta state police command have been killed by gunmen in Anambra. Ikenga Tochukwu, the Anambra police spokesperson, said the officers were killed on Friday along Isheke road, Ihiala LGA of the state. He said they were on their way to Abia state for an official assignment. The police spokesperson said their van was set ablaze by the yet-to-be-identified gunmen. Tochukwu said the Anambra police command has recovered their bodies while their killers are currently being tracked. “On 10/2/2023, by 2:40 pm, Police Officers attached to Ihaila Area Command, responding to a distress call along Isheke road, Ihaila, recovered the bodies of three fatally wounded policemen. The officers came under attack and their vehicle was set ablaze by yet unidentified armed men,” he said. “Information reveals that the Policemen were identified as officers attached to Explosives Ordinance Department (EOD), Delta State Police Command and on official assignment en route to Abia state. “Efforts are currently ongoing in tracking the armed men that committed this act. Further details shall be communicated, please.” According to PUNCH, the officers were among the security personnel of Ifeanyi Okowa, the Delta state governor and vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The officers were said to be in the advance security team of the governor travelling to Abia. The PDP presidential campaign is expected to hold a rally in Umuahia, Abia state, on Saturday (today). Daniel Bwala, a spokesperson for the Atiku/Okowa presidential campaign, did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment. Bright Edafe, Delta police spokesperson, however, told TheCable that there is no official communication yet from the Anambra police command on the matter. “I cannot confirm the death of any of our men. I read it in the news just as you did. I will inform you when I do. But for now, I have no comment on that,” Edafe said.