The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential (PDP) presidential campaign council has alleged that Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, is working for Bola Tinubu, standard-bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Abiye Sekibo, director-general of the campaign in Rivers, in a letter on Wednesday, said Wike has directed government officials in the state to work for the election of Tinubu. Sekibo was reacting to the withdrawal of the approval of Adokiye Amiesimaka stadium for the party to use for its presidential campaign rally. TheCable had reported how the Rivers state government said the decision to revoke the approval was taken over an alleged plot by the Atiku campaign in the state to share the facility with a “violent” faction of the APC loyal to Tonye Cole, the state’s APC governorship candidate. Sekibo said it is “appalling and highly preposterous” for the Rivers state government to “assume” that the PDP plans to hold a joint rally with the APC at the venue. “We completely deny your assertion as patently false and perverse and we believe that our highly respected security agencies cannot furnish you with such untrue and unfounded lies,” the letter addressed to Wike reads. “That the PDP Presidential Campaign Council has nothing whatsoever to do with the APC in Rivers State. That it is appalling and highly preposterous for you or anyone to assume that the PDP and APC could jointly hold an event in the same venue. “We believe that the only reason for this cancellation is Your Excellency’s notice of our massive mobilisation and total acceptance of Waziri Atiku Abubakar as the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by the people of River States. “However we are rather aware by credible information reaching us that Your Excellency has directed all Local Government Council Chairmen, Special Advisers, Commissioners, Party Executives at the state, local government, and ward levels, and all other appointees of yours to work for the APC presidential candidate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tunibu even though you have not had the courage to announce same to the people of Rivers State. “Your general public utterances, innuendos, and conduct have pointed to the fact that you are bent on frustrating and if possible, preventing the emergence of the PDP Presidential candidate, His Excellency, Atiku Abubakar, GCON, Waziri Adamawa, as the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Sekibo said Wike’s “involvement in the so-called G5 is the height of anti-party activity”. “It is therefore surprising that you are now accusing us of hobnobbing with the APC faction in River State,” he added.