President Muhammadu Buhari says there was currently a 100 percent broadband penetration across the country. The president said this at the maiden digital economy conference of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), held in Abuja on Tuesday. Broadband penetration refers to the number of subscriptions to fixed and mobile broadband services. In August last year, Umar Danbatta, executive vice-chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), said broadband penetration in the country climbed to 44.5 percent in July from 40.9 percent in February. Danbatta also expressed optimism that the national broadband target of 70 percent in 2025 was achievable. Buhari, who was represented by Isa Pantami, minister of communications and digital economy, said reports that claimed the country had achieved only 43 percent broadband penetration were obsolete. He explained that from 23 percent coverage in 2019, the federal government had increased broadband penetration by 77 percent in 2022 and 100 percent in 2023. “One of the richest persons in the world announced that Nigeria, out of the 54 African countries, has as outstanding broadband penetration. As I speak to you today, the broadband penetration in Nigeria is 100 percent,” Buhari said. “As of today, broadband can be accessed everywhere in the country, whether in the urban area, rural area, or desert. We are the first African country to attain this and the only one so far. “70 percent is distinction and the digital sector has surpassed it. We delivered excellently in all eight priority areas in the sector.” According to Buhari, the communication ministry’s quarterly revenue had grown considerably, adding that “we moved from generating N51bn in three months to N408bn in three months.” On his part, John Udeagbala, national president, NACCIMA, said the conference was put together to promote the technology ecosystem, establish the potential of digital economy for job creation, and identify opportunities that exist in the tech industry in Nigeria.