Dayo Ekong, Lagos Labour Party (LP) chairperson, says the party will not rest until it gets justice for disenfranchised supporters. Speaking to TheCable after the party was declared winner of Lagos, Ekong said its supporters were bullied, attacked, and disenfranchised in different areas. She said every Nigerian has a right for their votes to count. “Amidst what we went through — attacks, intimidation — but God is a God of justice. God has heard the cry of Nigerians and that is why this victory, irrespective of how we were disenfranchised, bullied, attacked, and all manner of shenanigans, we came top,” Ekong said. “This victory is definitely well deserving. But however, there are areas we still need to verify because we believe that every Nigerian has a right for their votes to be counted. And those areas that we were disenfranchised, we will not rest on our oars until we get justice.” Speaking about the party’s chances of winning the gubernatorial election in Lagos, Ekong said: “Definitely, there is no doubt about it. Just like our principal, his excellency Mr. Peter Obi, a credible man, a competent man with capacity; Gbadebo Rhodes-Vivour, happens to have the same values. He has no doubt in my mind because out of the lot, he happens to be the best, and come March 11, victory is assured by the grace of God.” She said the party would prioritise the youths if it wins, noting that Nigerian are tired of the old order. “Nigerians are tired, they deserve change and that is why they stood up for what they believe in, which is having a change for a better Nigeria where all Nigerian lives matter and they are well taken care of. “And the youths are a major concern for Labour Party, that the youths have a sense of belonging in Nigeria instead of looking for an easy way out. Because a lot of them are frustrated, a lot of them are jobless and all these things have to be considered. And I can assure you that Labour Party will bring that change that all Nigerians have been longing for.”  