Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, says the state will begin food distribution to “vulnerable residents” from Monday to reduce the hardship caused by petrol and naira scarcity. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke on Saturday at the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) inter-denominational service in Lagos, said the fare reduction on state-owned transportation services will be extended. He said his administration is working with the health sector to see how it can reduce the hardship faced by Lagos residents. “As your Governor, I cannot pretend that I don’t know that things are tough out there. There are many challenges that we all face,” he said. “I come with a big heart to say to you that I share with my people and that is why we will be going back to Abuja until we do the right thing. We will not stop until we do the proper thing and ensure that our people are broken from the shackles of poverty. “We will ensure that anybody that wants to bring us down in this country, God Almighty will not give them the space, and the unity that holds us will continue to abide with us. “As a government, because we feel the pains that we currently have, the half price on buses will continue for a very long time. I am working with the health sector to see what kind of succour we can give our people and in the coming days, I will be announcing that. “We are making arrangements through various bodies to give food packs, decent food packs to all of the vulnerable people in our society. “From Monday, we will begin to bring them out in cartons and in different sizes so that we can reduce the level of suffering, bring some bit of succour and give people some hope and belief that before this whole thing blows over, at least they continue to live. “That is what government should be doing and that is what we are going to do.” The Lagos decision to distribute food packages comes hours after Ogun announced a similar initiative. Sanwo-Olu also said he is seeking re-election to continue good governance in Lagos. He also encouraged attendees to support Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “You will agree with me that given the challenges that lie ahead and the urgent task of moving the country at a fast pace, on the path of progress, the most important qualities to be considered in electing our next leaders are capacity, capability, track record, integrity and the fear of God,” he added. “As a government, we will continue to promote fairness, justice, and everything that will make life more comfortable for our people.”