Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND) says electoral violence in Rivers could lead to politically motivated killings in the state. In its “Niger Delta Weekly Update”, PIND said the level of violence evident in the ongoing election campaigns is proof that urgent measures need to be put in place to address the trend. The organisation said a number of violent cases and deaths have already been recorded ahead of the elections. It added that there is potential for the situation to escalate, intensify arms proliferation, and violent criminality that could affect economic activities and disenfranchise residents. The foundation advised stakeholders to immediately create relevant infrastructure to mitigate the occurrence. “Historically, elections in Rivers State are high stake aﬀairs often characterized by lethal violence,” the update reads. “According to data, over 100 incidents of political and election-related violence were reported in Rivers State between January 2019 and December 2022, including more than 40 fatalities. “In the lead-up to the 2023 general elections, political tension has intensiﬁed with several reported incidents of lethal violence in the state. In January 2023, for instance, two explosions reportedly occurred and injured three residents at the venue of a political rally in Rumuwoji community, Port Harcourt LGA. “Separately, in January, political thugs reportedly attacked the governorship candidate of a political party and his campaign team in Akinima Town, Ahoada West LGA. More recently, on January 31, 2023, political thugs reportedly attacked the campaign team of the governorship candidate of a political party, shot sporadically, and abducted the party’s campaign director in Opobo Town, Opobo/Nkoro LGA. “The level of violence that characterizes the ongoing election campaigns underscores an urgent need for measures to mitigate the risk of violence in the State ahead of the 2023 general elections. If not mitigated, the situation could intensify and cause widespread politically motivated killings and clashes between cult gangs in the State. “This could negatively impact the dynamics of conflict and insecurity in the State with significant socio-economic and political consequences. “The current political situation in Rivers State is highly charged with the potential to escalate in ways that could intensify lethal violence before and during the 2023 general elections and beyond. “Stakeholders should continue to advocate for non-violent elections through popular media outfits and forums. Stakeholders should also create relevant infrastructure for peace messaging, grassroots peace advocacy, and facilitation of peace pacts between key actors to defuse tensions and mitigate political violence in the state.” 