The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a pregnant woman for alleged drug trafficking. Femi Babafemi, the NDLEA spokesperson, in a statement on Sunday, said the arrest was made during operations carried out across eight states in the country. Babafemi said the pregnant woman identified as Gloria Onome, was arrested with 800 grams of skunk at the export shed of the Murtala Muhammed airport in Lagos. He said the skunk was concealed in two small radio sets that Gloria wanted to send to Dubai. Babafemi also said the NDLEA arrested one Iwuozor Chinedu with 1.30 kgs and 900 grams of cocaine at the Lagos airport. “Top on the list of those so far arrested in connection with the seizures is a Nigerian based in Athens, Greece, Iwuozor Edward Chinedu. He was debarked from an Ethiopian Airline flight on Friday 3rd February after officers in the tarmac team of NDLEA intercepted two bags during a secondary check exercise at the foot of the aircraft,” the statement reads. “When the bags were searched in the presence of Chinedu and other airport stakeholders, two big pellets wrapped with foil papers and some sprinkles of pepper were recovered from each of the two sides of one of the bags. The pellets were used to construct false walls at the sides of the bag. “The two parcels contained substances that tested positive to cocaine and heroin with a gross weight of 1.30kgs and 900grams respectively. “During the preliminary interview, Chinedu claimed he came to Nigeria three months ago for surgery, which he was not comfortable doing in Athens. He further claimed he was given the bag to deliver in Greece for a fee of two million naira (N2,000,000).” On Monday 30, the same day the pregnant lady was arrested at the Lagos international airport, operatives of the NDLEA also intercepted a consignment to Congo Kinshasa. The cargo contained 111 bottles of body cream used to conceal 24.50kgs of ephedrine, a chemical precursor and active ingredient for the production of methamphetamine. Babafemi said the cargo was traced to Onyekachukwu Uduekwelu, a trader at the Alaba trade fair complex, Ojo area of Lagos, after the initial arrest of two freight agents.