The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says no one will be allowed to vote during the elections without a valid permanent voter card (PVC). In the last few days, a message stating that registered voters who could not get their PVCs can still vote in the elections has been circulating. “Even if you are registered but couldn’t get your PVC, go to http://cvr.inecnigeria.org/vvs, type in your State, LGA, your last name and first name, your date of birth and send,” the message reads. “Print out your displayed info, go to your polling unit on election day, present it to INEC Officials during accreditation and they will allow you to thumbprint on BVAS, which will confirm you by bringing out that same info you are holding, then, you are accredited to vote.” While the message seems to be circulating more on WhatsApp, it has also been shared on social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook. Attention!!! Have u registered for ur PVC, but wasn't issued? Latest information from INEC is that everyone can vote, with or without PVC. Check the information below for more details pic.twitter.com/OzurnanieV — Chuks  Dollars (@chuks_dollars) February 23, 2023  A Facebook user shared that registered voters without a PVC can vote using just their name, thumbprint or voter identification number (VIN).  “Dear friends come out en mass, even if you are yet to get your PVC, use the temporary one i.e the registration printout/slip, what INEC ad-hoc staff needs is your name/VIN and your thumbprint,” the user wrote. “Even if you don’t have PVC or VIN but you know the exact polling unit that you are supposed to cast your vote ask them to use your name and thumbprint to verify you.” But is this information true? Speaking with TheCable on Friday, Rotimi Oyekanmi, INEC spokesperson, said the message is false and asked Nigerians to disregard it. “The message is not from INEC. It is fake. To be sure, our policy of no PVC, no voting remains,” he said. “We urge Nigerians to disregard the fake narrative. Every eligible voter is required to have his or her permanent voter card (PVC) at the ready when polling units open tomorrow Saturday 25th February at 8.30 am. No voter without a PVC will be allowed to vote.” Also, Mahmood Yakubu, the INEC chairperson, speaking during a media briefing at the national collation centre on Thursday, reiterated the commission’s requirement for a PVC before voting. “The procedure for voting as provided in the Electoral Act 2022, clearly makes the use of the BVAS mandatory. So also, the use of the permanent voter’s card (PVC). The no PVC, no voting rule subsists,” he said.