A gunman killed three people and wounded five others at Michigan State University (MSU) in the United States. The gunman shot himself dead after leading authorities on a chase. Chris Rozman, interim deputy chief of the MSU police, said the incident happened on Monday night, noting that the five injured persons were rushed to the hospital where they are in “critical condition”. The suspected shooter, a 43-year-old man with no affiliation to the university, was found dead with a self-inflicted gunshot wound after a confrontation with law enforcement officials, Rozman said. A motive for the shooting is unknown. “This truly has been a nightmare that we are living tonight,” the police deputy chief said. “We have no idea why he came to campus to do this tonight.” The suspect and the victims have not been identified as police said they were determining whether the latter were students or affiliated with MSU. In a series of tweets on Tuesday, Gretchen Whitmer, governor of Michigan, expressed her sadness over the shooting. She said gun violence “is a uniquely American problem”, adding that “it does not have to be this way”. “Parents across Michigan are on pins and needles calling their kids tonight, checking in on them, and telling them they love them. It doesn’t have to be this way,” Whitmer tweeted. Parents across Michigan are on pins and needles calling their kids tonight, checking in on them and telling them they love them. It doesn't have to be this way. — Governor Gretchen Whitmer (@GovWhitmer) February 14, 2023  “This is a uniquely American problem. Too many of us scan rooms for exits when we enter them. We plan who that last text or call would go to. We should not, we cannot accept living like this. “Tonight, Spartans will cry and hold each other a little closer. We will mourn the loss of beautiful souls and pray for those fighting for their lives in the hospital.” In January, a family of eight, including five children, was found shot dead in their home in Enoch City, Utah. The police said the discovery followed a call to perform a “welfare check” in the home. The incident happened hours after a separate shooting incident in Baltimore which left a high school student dead and four injured. Police said they were killed during the lunch break outside a restaurant.