Sokoto, Zamfara and Kebbi states have commenced sensitisation of citizens on ways to prevent probable flooding disasters after the Nigerian Metrological Agency (NiMet) predicted the early onset of rainfall. In 2022, many states across Nigeria suffered from the devastating impact of flooding that ravaged many communities including government properties. The flooding also displaced millions of citizens and many were said to have lost their lives. Abbas Kamba, executive director, Kebbi State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), said local leaders have been engaged to adopt preventive strategies before the commencement of the yearly rainfall. Kamba listed Kebbi, Ngaski, Yauri, Koko/Besse, Argungu, Dandi, Bagudo, Bunza, Augie, Shanga, and Zuru as the areas predicted to experience flooding in 2023. He said efforts are in place to empty drainages and other water channels, adding that council chairmen have been directed to encourage residents to plant trees during construction. “We had meeting with the stakeholders in all the 21 local government areas to intimate the LGA chairmen about the implications of the 2023 annual flood outlook with regards to Kebbi,” NAN quoted him as saying. “SEMA has put all the necessary measures before the onset of the rainy season and arrangements were made on auxiliary alternatives. “The state government plans to plant about one million trees, local government areas should also encourage policies that will ensure the compulsory planting and nursing of trees. ”At least three trees should be planted in every frontage of a house, especially in flood-prone areas.” The director urged the council chairmen to intensify sensitisation campaigns to enable residents to adopt proper environmental practices. Bashir Ahmad, director of information at the ministry of humanitarian affairs, disaster management, and social development in Zamfara, said the government was making efforts to enable early warning signs and also evacuate drainages and refuse in flood-prone areas. “We are collaborating with NiMet and relevant agencies on measures to prevent future occurrence of flooding in our communities,” he said. “We held several meetings with NiMet in January where they briefed the ministry on climate forecast and areas with possible risk. “We will continue to work together and give emphasis on weather updates by NiMet.” Commenting on the need for collaboration, Aliyu Kafindangi, zonal head of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Sokoto operation office, said the government has engaged stakeholders in three states. Kafindangi said the agency sent five letters to the government on the need to ensure early warning signs and emergency interventions during flood disasters. He said the government did not respond to the letters. He urged state and local governments to partner to improve the preparedness of communities on measures to avoid flooding. “NEMA has always been concerned about the effects of floods in recent years which resulted in a quantum loss of lives and property with adverse socio-economic consequences,” he added. ”The agency has made it mandatory to sensitise major stakeholders, policymakers, and other humanitarian workers to the need to be proactive in preventing, mitigating, and responding to any disaster.” NiMet had earlier predicted that Sokoto, Zamfara, Kebbi, and four other northern states will experience early onset of rain between 20th June and 7th of July 2023.