At least 400 people have been killed and about 2,000 others injured in Turkey and Syria after a 7.8 magnitude earthquake hit southern Turkey early Monday. With a rising death toll, the earthquake is one of the strongest to hit Turkey in more than 100 years. The earthquake sent tremors across the region that caused buildings to collapse. Multiple aftershocks were felt in Cyprus, Lebanon, and Israel. The earthquake came as the middle eastern country is experiencing a snowstorm that is expected to continue until Thursday. Rescue teams are carrying out a frantic search for survivors trapped under chunks of concrete in cities and towns across Turkey and Syria. Videos shared on social media showed dozens of collapsed buildings, while frightened residents huddled on the darkened streets amid the chaos. There were also videos of the only runway at Hatay airport in southern Turkey torn open as a result of the earthquake. TheCable could not immediately verify the videos. The only runway at #Hatay Airport in southern Turkey tore open during the earthquake. Death toll #Update from #Turkey–#Syria #earthquake rises to 609, more than 2029 injured#deprem #Idlib #Syria #DEPREMOLDU  #TurkeyEarthquake pic.twitter.com/lLeafqkPSw — Chaudhary Parvez (@ChaudharyParvez) February 6, 2023  Tragic! The moment two buildings in Aleppo collapsed following the 7,4 magnitude earthquake that struck Syria and Turkey, hundreds are reported killed in both countries and many others are still under rubble. The earthquake was felt in Lebanon, Iraq, Armenia, and Cyprus. pic.twitter.com/1vnWFE3zuh — Ali Hashem علي هاشم (@alihashem_tv) February 6, 2023  My thoughts and prayers this morning go out to #Turkey and its people after being hit by a massive earthquake. We follow the news with concern! pic.twitter.com/MZiezQ414i — Behgjet Pacolli (@pacollibehgjet) February 6, 2023  Turkish President Recep Erdogan said the quake was felt in many parts of the country. “I convey my best wishes to all our citizens who were affected by the earthquake that occurred in Kahramanmaraş and was felt in many parts of our country. All our relevant units are on alert under the coordination of AFAD,” Erdogan said. “Our search and rescue teams were immediately dispatched to the areas affected by the earthquake. Our Ministry of Interior and Health, AFAD, Governorships, and all other institutions started their work rapidly. “We hope that we will get through this disaster together as soon as possible and with the least damage, and we continue our work.” Experts have predicted more deaths in the coming days.