The Zamfara police command says its officers have arrested one Fatima Sani over her alleged involvement in the supply of arms to a bandit kingpin in the state. Speaking at a media briefing on Friday, Muhammed Shehu, Zamfara police spokesperson, said the suspect was arrested following information received on her activities. “On 13th February, 2023, police detectives arrested the above mentioned female gunrunner in possession of 325 rounds of live ammunition, following the intelligence information obtained about her movement with the said exhibit from Lafia in Nasarawa state to a notorious bandit kingpin hibernating in Zamfara forest,” he said. “In the course of interrogation, the suspect confessed to have been into the business and that she had earlier supplied three AK-47 rifles and 1,000 rounds of AK-47 live ammunition to bandits operating within Zamfara.” In another development, Shehu said one Rabi’u Umar was arrested over alleged possession of 1,000 subscriber identity module (SIM) cards. “On 15th February, 2023, upon an intelligence that the above-named suspect was seen with uncountable number of registered MTN sim cards, police operatives swung into action , arrested the suspect and conducted on-the-spot search,” he said. “The above exhibits were recovered from him. In the course of investigation, suspect confessed that the SIM cards are for sale to customers who are looking for registered SIM cards. “It is well known to everyone that it is no longer permitted by the NCC to sell registered SIM cards of any network.” Six other persons, alleged to be members of a kidnap syndicate, were also arrested during a raid on a hideout in the state. “On 12th February, 2023, Zamfara police command through its community policing engagement acted on intelligence information that led to the busting of a kidnap syndicate and the arrest of six serial kidnappers who have been terrorising different villages in Kaduna, Kano, and other neighbouring states such as Zamfara, Sokoto, and so on,” the police spokesperson said. “In the course of investigation, it was discovered that the suspects have carried out a series of kidnapping where unspecified number of people were abducted and millions of naira collected as ransom. “Surprisingly, one of the suspects, Thomas Ya’u, confessed that sometime last year, he masterminded the kidnapping of his biological mother and three others. “As a result of the kidnapping, they collected the sum of N30 million from the relations as ransom, and in turn he was given N1 million as his share.” Shehu added that the suspects will be charged to court in due course.