The Nigerian Army has announced the commencement of enlistment for its direct short-service commission course. The application which opened on January 31 was posted on the Twitter handle of the army on Wednesday. The army said the application is free while both civilian and military personnel are eligible to apply. “This is to inform the general public that the online application for Direct Short Service Commission Course 27/2023 has commenced,” the tweet reads. “All applications must be submitted online not later than 14 March 2023. Visit recruitment.army.mil.ng. Application is Free !!!.” From the application website, eligible candidates are further advised on how to apply and the requirements needed including: “Be a Nigerian as defined in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria; Be a male or female between the ages of 20 and 30 years. Medical consultants could be between 25 – 40 years of age by May 2023. “Be medically, mentally and physically fit according to NA standards; Be recommended and attested to his/her good character by at least 2 recognizable referees who are either a Local Government Chairman/Secretary or an officer of the Armed Forces not below the rank of Lieutenant Colonel and equivalent or an Assistant Commissioner of Police and above who must hail from the applicant’s state of origin. Passport photographs of referees must be affixed to the letter of attestation. “Applicants must submit a letter of Attestation from their former institutions; measure in height at least 1.68m (for males) and 1.65m (for females); must not have been convicted by any court of law. Military personnel applying must be free from any disciplinary case and endorsed by the applicant’s commanding officer/commander.” Applicants are expected to have a minimum age of 20 or maximum age of 40; a minimum height of 1.65 and minimum grade of second class — lower division. Some of the positions available for application include medical consultant, medical doctor, pharmacist, nurse, dental surgeon, speech therapist, and dietitian, among others. The deadline for application is March 14, 2023. Interested persons can apply through this LINK.