The Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) has partnered with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) to address poverty and rights violations among children in Nigeria. In a statement, UNICEF said the partnership was launched on Thursday and would receive support from the federal government. The UN agency said the partnership “will focus on aligning the nation’s poverty reduction strategy with the child and national multidimensional poverty index (MPI)”. It said the initiative would review social sector policies to reduce child poverty and implement presidential-level accountability measures for reporting and feedback. Speaking on the partnership, Niyi Yusuf, NESG chairman, said the move “is both timely and significant” to address rising poverty among children in the country. “Today’s children are tomorrow’s leaders, and it is crucial that we tackle child rights violations and poverty in Nigeria to ensure their success. According to the National MPI 2022, two-thirds of our children are multi-dimensionally poor, with 51% of all poor people being children. This means over half of poor children lack the intellectual stimulation necessary for early childhood development,” Yusuf said. “Our partnership with UNICEF is both timely and significant. UNICEF is a leading provider of humanitarian and developmental aid for children worldwide, and this launch represents a critical step towards a future where children’s rights are respected, and they receive the support they need to become productive citizens.” Cristian Munduate, UNICEF Nigeria representative, said the partnership was in line with the organisation’s commitment to protect children’s rights. “UNICEF is dedicated to protecting children’s rights in Nigeria and worldwide, and helping them build a strong foundation for their future. Our partnership with NESG highlights the urgency of realizing this goal and will coordinate efforts to achieve child rights protection in Nigeria through effective public policies,” Munduate said. “Investing in children is investing in human capital. The right nutrition and care, especially during the first 1000 days of life, can have a significant impact on a child’s ability to grow, learn, and rise out of poverty. It can break the cycle of poverty for families, communities, and countries, and shape a society’s long-term stability and prosperity.”