Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Tuesday, took his campaign to Enugu state. Speaking at the campaign ground in the state capital, Abubakar said Nigerians are ready to elect the PDP in the presidential election. He asked the crowd at the campaign venue to join other Nigerians who are “geared towards” voting for the PDP. “I want to let you know that this country is geared towards electing a PDP government. Do not be an exception and do not be a minority,” Abubakar said. “I want to say that I am very pleased with the attendance and the crowd I have seen here in Enugu today. “Whoever says there is no PDP in Enugu is not saying the truth. There is PDP in Enugu and Enugu has been PDP from inception and is still PDP today, and will continue to be PDP. “When I came here a few months ago to attend a zonal conference of the south-east, I said to the Igbo that I am going to be the stepping stone to the Igbo presidency, and I mean it. “Whether an Igbo man is from the south-east or south-south, it is the same race and today, my running mate is an Igbo man. It is a universal ethnic group; it is a universal race. “So, my fellow brothers and sisters, the people of Enugu state, I want you to continue believing and I want you to continue supporting the PDP because PDP is Enugu and Enugu is PDP. “The next government is going to be formed by the PDP. Therefore, as you have always been, be in the mainstream of Nigerian politics because that is the only way that can bring about the prosperity, economic development, peace, and security you are looking for in this part of the country and the country in general. “So, we want to thank you very much indeed for turning up in great numbers to attend this rally and we promise you Enugu state will continue to receive the required attention it has always received.” Meanwhile, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, governor of Enugu, was absent from the campaign rally. Ugwuanyi is a member of the PDP G5 — a group of five governors who have been absent from Abubakar’s campaign rallies. The governors — Nyesom Wike of Rivers, Ugwuanyi of Enugu, Samuel Ortom of Benue, Seyi Makinde of Oyo, and Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia — are demanding the resignation of Iyorchia Ayu as the party’s national chairman. The demand for Ayu’s resignation is premised on the grounds that the party’s standard-bearer and national chair should not come from the same region. But Ayu has stayed put, insisting that he will not resign unless the PDP wins the presidential election scheduled to take place on February 25.