The All Progressives Congress (APC) in the north-west says it is confident that Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate, will win by a landslide in the zone in the February 25 election. The north-west, comprising Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Jigawa, Sokoto, and Zamfara has 22.67 million registered voters. In a statement on Sunday, Salihu Lukman, national vice-chairman (north-west), said the successful rallies and the ability of APC leaders to reconcile in the zone are signposts to victory. “All these signposts victory for the APC in the north-west for our Presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu in the Presidential election of February 25, 2023, and all our candidates for the national assembly,” Lukman said. “It also signposts victory in the governorship and state assembly elections in all the seven states of north-west. We are very confident that with Allah’s blessing all the seven states of North-West, including Sokoto State will be APC States as from May 29, 2023. “As we move to election day, February 25, 2023, we are confident that our leaders in all the seven states of North-West will give all necessary guide to party members, candidates, and all party supporters. “We call on all members of the presidential campaign council from the zone to join all our party leaders at state levels to ensure effective mobilisation of voters on Election Day. We must remind everyone that in the end politics is local and victory for the election will be at the polling unit. “Without doubt, APC north-west presidential rally has affirmed that north-west is APC and APC is north-west. We must remind Nigerians that the political history of Nigeria has shown that every Presidential candidate that wins the votes of North-West wins the presidency. “With APC leaders united in north-west, supported by all party members and all candidates at all levels, in sha Allah, APC Presidential Candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will win the February 25, 2023 Presidential election in north-west and will be returned eventually as President-elect of the Federal Republic of Nigeria!”