Dele Alake, director of strategic communication of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign council, has called on security agencies to stop those instigating violence over election results. Since the collation of results started on Sunday, there have been varied reactions — including protests — by party agents. Dino Melaye, a former senator and representative of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), protested during the presentation of results at the national collation centre in Abuja on Monday. He alleged that there were discrepancies in the results presented by collation officers. TheCable had also reported Dele Momodu’s claim on the announcement of “impossible victory” for Bola Tinubu, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Reacting to the development, Alake, in a statement on Monday, said such reactions were “clear that the deceit and propaganda of the opposition did not fetch them the expected votes”. “We note with utmost concern those inciting comments and calls to violence by some spokespersons of the opposition, especially those from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),” Alake said. “We are particularly concerned and call on the State Security Services and the Nigeria Police Force to immediately restrain persons such as Dino Melaye, Dele Momodu and a certain Pastor Paul Enenche of Dunamis Church from their clear call to violence. “Melaye’s tweet threatening violence, Momodu going on the TV to announce a purported winner and Enenche’s hate speech from the pulpit violate every law of the land. They should not go scot-free. “When failure stared them in the face, rather than accept the outcome with dignity like good democrats would, some sore losers began shopping for ways to cut corners or scuttle the process. “We also wonder why agents of the party at the Abuja collation centre are pushing insistently for the uploading of the results on INEC portal, when section 60 of the Electoral Act is clear about who has the power to do so at the polling unit. The state collation officer has no such power. The INEC chairman, who collates what has been collated from the states also has no such power. “Is the PDP calling for the upload to enable it hack the system to give it a false victory? “Unlike what the PDP spokesmen have done, we will not announce ourselves as winners despite having the figures which affirm our anticipated victory. “We will abide by the laws by allowing the electoral umpire to do its job. “We call on the opposition to stop the macabre dance of a dying horse and embrace defeat honourably. There can still be honour in defeat. “Security agents should stay on alert and deal with individuals and groups who are planning to foment trouble. Election is not a war. This is democracy at play.”