Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has described the agro-cargo international airport in Ogun as the infrastructure for building a dynamic economic area. Osinbajo spoke on Thursday at the official landing of the maiden test flights to the Gateway International Agro-Cargo Airport, in Ikenne Local Government Area of the state. The politician said he was proud to be a citizen of the state and a son of Ikenne. “So, it is with great pride and joy that I join you here today to witness an incredibly momentous event; the maiden test flight to the recently-constructed Gateway Agro-Cargo International Airport of Ogun state,” he said. “As we descended to land a few moments ago, we were able to see the runway — a state-of-the-art four-kilometre facility able to take a Boeing 777 and a Boeing 747 aircraft landing and even A380 aircraft. A runway does not get better than this. “It is not just the best in Nigeria, it is a world class airport. With what we all see here this afternoon, Ogun State is definitely taking a huge step forward in fulfilling the dreams of our forebears; dreams of a vibrant, modern and industrious community living together in peace and prosperity.” Osinbajo said it was pertinent to commend Gbenga Daniel, former governor of the state, who conceived the airport and got an approval from the federal government. He noted that the fact that Dapo Abiodun, governor of Ogun state, took the idea, reimagined it, and created the cargo airport was a testament to his intelligence and insight. Osinbajo said the project is the fulfillment of a vision and the infrastructure for building a dynamic economic area. “We are now poised to provide facilities for a world-class economic zone,” he said. “But what a day this is — all of us are witnesses to the first fully functional agro-cargo airport in our country, we are witnesses to the landing of the first commercial aircraft at this airport and we saw the crew of the airport live. “And the commercial jet itself is one of the fleet of aircrafts of Value Jet owned by Kunle Soname, a son of Remo and in particular, Ikenne.” Osinbajo said the airport would serve the special agriculture processing zones (SAPZ) established with the assistance of the African Development Bank (ADB). ‘AVIATION IS FASTEST GROWING SECTOR IN NIGERIA’ On his part, Hadi Sirika, minister of aviation, said the airport was the result of deliberations about how to improve the nation’s economy and social wellbeing. He said the aviation sector had witnessed immense growth under the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. “I must say that during the Buhari government, aviation became the fastest growing sector of the economy before COVID-19. This is according to the National Bureau of Statistics and Ministry of Finance,” Sirika said. “We doubled the number of airports; we doubled the number of airlines.” Meanwhile, Abiodun said the airport was a category 4E airport and one of the best constructed airports in the country. “It has a four-kilometre runway, a 36-metre control tower, fire station, cargo airpron and terminal buildings. It has a 82,000 square metre cargo airpron for type E and type C aircrafts when completed,” he said.