Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, Ondo state governor, has asked the people of the state to rise above the frustration from fuel and naira scarcity and cast their vote for Bola Tinubu, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) In a state-wide broadcast on Thursday, Akeredolu said the scarcity is a ploy to truncate the elections and prevent the APC from winning. “The goal is to truncate the election and deny the country the service of a true patriot, an endowed visionary with a proven record of character, knowledge, leadership, and performance,” the governor said. “It is also an attempt to abuse the principle of the rotational presidency by denying a section of this country its legitimate right thereby fuelling ethnic disaffection and creating a grave constitutional crisis in the country. “Recall that in the course of these circumstances, I have offered clear and unequivocal statements as our stand on this dangerous and unfortunate adventure. “For us as a government, our stand then and even today remains the same. We are convinced that both the ill-timed cash swap policy and the artificial scarcity of fuel are both lethal injections deliberately administered to demarket the government, create an uncontrollable crisis in the nation, brew disaffection between the people and government and finally frustrate the 2023 general elections. “To say the least, it is a dagger drawn at the heart of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on the eve of the elections in order to destroy it and the governments it controls at the Federal and State levels. “As the nation trudges on, our resolve to deepen democracy and good governance must remain unflinching and abiding. “Despite the desperate efforts by selfish and subversive elements within the government, to destroy the multiparty politics in Nigeria, the dividends of good governance brought to the people by the All Progressives Congress (APC) remain indelible in the recent history of our state in particular and the nation in general. “You have witnessed the serious impacts of our administration in Ondo State in the last six years through our life-changing policies, massive projects, and unending activities. You have also seen our dedication both as an APC political party and government, to our vision, mission, and promises of life abundant for the good people of Ondo State. “You have witnessed our abiding faith and confidence in the inner strength and potential of our people. You are witnesses to the full deployment of all our God-given talents, knowledge, and capabilities, in service of Ondo state, to the best of our ability. “The same can be said of the Presidential Candidate of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He is at the center of all the darts and arrows of the current misnomer in Nigeria because he represents the new Nigeria we all envisage. “The central purpose is to frustrate his popularity and renowned acceptability across all tribes and religions in this country. The goal is to truncate the election and deny the country the service of a true patriot, an endowed visionary with a proven record of character, knowledge, leadership, and performance. “It is also an attempt to abuse the principle of the rotational presidency by denying a section of this country its legitimate right thereby fuelling ethnic disaffection and creating a grave constitutional crisis in the country. “As your Governor, my duty to you at this time of great confusion and frustration, is, therefore, to provide you with a clear vision of the path of redemption and hope. “It is to charge you all to shake off the artificial frustration and the temporary barriers on your way to choose a President who represents hope and assured brighter days ahead. “My message to you is that despite all the well-planned intrigues to deny you of your democratic rights and the future and prosperity of your offsprings, which Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu represents, I urge you to troop out massively and vote for the APC on Saturday.” He also encouraged state residents to maintain peace and civility while exercising their franchise. 