Five political parties contesting in the 2023 elections have adopted Atiku Abubakar, standard-bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as the candidate for the presidential election. The political parties are Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Action Alliance (AA), African Democratic Congress (ADC), Action Peoples Party (APP), and National Rescue Movement (NRM). The political parties made the decision public at the PDP presidential rally in Yola, the capital of Adamawa. Chairpersons of the five political parties attended the rally. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues, Yusuf Dantalle, national chairman of APM, said Abubakar is the best choice for the country, adding that the parties reached the decision after “extensive deliberations and consultations” with relevant stakeholders. “History is being made in our collective effort to recover, rebuild, and turn around the destiny of our beloved nation. It is time to unite, reconcile, heal and secure Nigerians in our match to greatness. It is time to chat a new course for our dear nation and redirect the ship of the state to the path of development and advancement,” he said. “It is time we all should be proud to be called Nigerians; it is time for compassionate leadership with milk of human kindness in governance and end the suffering and hardship in our nation. It is time to return power to the people on whom sovereignty decides. It is time for patriotism, to run a participatory democracy and government of national unity and end the marginalisation of fellow compatriots in their own country. It is time to set aside partisan politics and join hands to make Nigeria great again and bequeath a strong, united, progressive, prosperous, equitable and decent democratic nation to future generations. “We are of the firm view that the Atiku/Okowa ticket is the best for our dear nation in this presidential election that will redefine the destiny of our country. We are proud to identify with this progressive movement that will deepen and strengthen the nation’s frail democracy, breathe fresh air into governance and restore the dignity of fellow compatriots that have suffered untold hardship in recent years. “Nigeria needs and deserves servant leaders, a listening government to transform the nation and the people’s standard of living; a government that will give priority to the security and welfare of the people in accordance with section 14(2b) of the 1999 constitution (as amended).” Dantalle said while the five political parties will collapse their structure nationwide to campaign for the victory of Abubakar, Nigerians should vote for their candidates for the governorship and legislative seats across the country.