The police command in Oyo says there are plans by “unscrupulous elements” to take advantage of the protests in Ibadan, the state capital, to attack some places of interest. Some residents of Ibadan took to the streets on Friday to protest the lingering scarcity of petrol and naira notes in the country. The unrest was said to have started at Agodi gate, at the intersection that leads to the state secretariat and the government house, before spreading to other parts including Iwo road, Gate bus-stop, and Idi Ape. According to Adewale Osifeso, spokesman of the state police command, intelligence showed that some unspecified persons have plans to attack banks, prisons, and facilities belonging to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He asked residents to remain calm and “go about their businesses without any fear of harassment or molestation”, while assuring them that security operatives are on top of the situation. “The Oyo State Police Command wishes to inform members of the public to stay calm and maintain peace even amidst pockets of protest that have emanated at different parts of the metropolis over hike in fuel pump price and unavailability of cash for dispense at ATM machines and Point of Sale Terminal especially within the capital,”  Osifeso said in a statement. “Worthy of note is that, available intelligence reveals that certain unscrupulous elements have perfected plans to hijack the process, escalating the situation into full-scale chaos by shutting down and attacking places of interest which include but not limited to INEC facilities, banks, media houses, schools, correctional centers and other critical infrastructure inclusive of looting major malls and business centers within the state. “Members of the public are hereby advised especially with reference to the youth segment to avoid being used by agents of violence who want to capitalise on the situation to criminally enrich themselves especially as we navigate towards the 2023 General Elections as the Command is fully prepared to mobilise fully to prevent these criminal elements from turning Oyo State into their playground. “Consequent on the above, residents would witness high octane patrols in concert with relevant sister security agencies all in a bid to heighten the level of confidence of residents and as well as reassure them of the commitment of the Oyo State Police Command to providing comprehensive security for all residents in the State.” Meanwhile, a Wema Bank PLC branch at Gate bus-stop has been reportedly attacked by protesters. A video making the rounds on social media showed protesters throwing objects at the facility, shattering its windows. Below are some reports from Twitter: Wema Bank at Gate being destroyed. Monahan is blocked, Iwo road is blocked, Idk ape is blocked, Gate bus stop is blocked, It's now a full blown riot in Ibadan. pic.twitter.com/RnfudOZ5My — Ayo Omo Ayo(LFC GUY) (@hafizayokunle) February 3, 2023  Ongoing protest at Iwo Road, Ibadan.Major roads are blocked, people are complaining about the current situation. pic.twitter.com/yJ7YvHiYc7 — Ibadan Community (@Ibadantwitta_) February 3, 2023  The moment angry Ibadan protesters destroyed Wema Bank ATM.#NairaRedesign pic.twitter.com/KEO2dy10FQ — JNL (@JustNewsline) February 3, 2023  