The Nigerian Human Rights Community (NHRC), a coalition of civil society organisations (CSOs), says the results of the elections conducted in Ekiti state “expressed the will of the people”. The group, in its assessment report released on Monday, said the transparency, effectiveness, and promptness of the process remain a reference point for future elections in Nigeria. TheCable reported that Bola Tinubu, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), won the presidential poll in Ekiti state with 201,494 votes. In the report signed by Taiwo Adeleye and Fred Ojinika, programme officers of the NHRC, the coalition said the Ekiti election should serve as a template to conduct other elections in Nigeria. The group added that for Ekiti to have been the first state to release its result showed the “effectiveness of the process”. The NHRC, however, said despite the laudable efforts of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the process recorded some irregularities. “We think Nigeria needs to learn a lot from the conduct of the National Election in Ekiti State. The election materials arrived as early as 7am in 90 percent of the polling units. The party agents conducted themselves in the most civil manner without pronounced cases of skirmishes,” the statement reads in part. “The security operatives were well detailed and professional in their conduct. We commend the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) officials and the police for their professional conduct during the exercise. “There was lack of intimidation of voters, no vote buying, while polling boxes were not snatched or destroyed during the exercise. “We see this as a very impressive development. It’s a lesson Nigeria needs to emulate.” NHRC also commended Biodun Oyebanji, the Ekiti governor, for his “moral forthrightness and his commitment to ensuring a peaceful and violent free election”. “The governor provided true leadership. Respondents said he consulted widely with all the political parties and drew commitment of non violence. It worked for the outcome of the hitch-free election,” the coalition said. “One of the lessons is that the mindset, orientation, and perspective of the political and cultural leadership is important in determining the outcome of elections. “Where political leaders consciously preach against violence through constructive engagement with stakeholders, irrespective of their political leaning, the prospect of having a free and fair election will be very high.” ‘NAIRA SCARCITY CAUSED LOW TURNOUT’ The group also said the scarcity of cash, which has been followed by the naira redesign policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), affected turnout during the elections. “Lack of mobility for voters and the negative impact of the CBN’s cash crunch denied many voters the opportunity of travelling to their communities to cast their votes,” it said. “We also observed that Ekiti needs more polling booths. The distance between one polling booth and the others fall below global standards. “We urge INEC to list Ekiti State as one of the communities that are in crucial need of more polling units. From our estimation, Ekiti needs no fewer than 500 more polling units to be able to meet the electoral expectations of the population.”