Paul Adefarasin, the senior pastor of House on the Rock church, has come under serious criticism following a sermon in relation to the general election. In a viral video, Adefarasin is seen telling his congregation that the elections might not go as they expect. While citing a parable, he said “Saul will come before David”, but encouraged the people to pray for a peaceful transition of power. “Here is the parable. Saul came before David; David did not come before Saul. Saul will come, and David will come after,” he said. “And hold it for a moment, Saul was not all that bad. He didn’t start out bad. He actually started out as a prophet and he did a lot of good, because he had half a heart. David had a whole heart, and it was necessary that he come after.” However, his statement has been followed by varied reactions across social media platforms, including speculations over the reference to ‘Saul’ and ‘David’ in terms of presidential candidates. A Twitter user, @boks84tm, wrote: “The time of Saul has passed. God has raised a judge for Nigeria… like He does for [Israel) whenever they are going through shege and they cry to him. Nigeria will sing a new song.” Another Twitter user, @Guchijones4, wrote: “Why can’t these guys just come out direct like the prophets of the past who never feared persecution and always spoke their mind not caring about the implications. These ones seem to be afraid of something or someone with their “alternative facts” concering this election.” Dear Pastor @pauladefarasin, the Bible is not a secret book. Nigerians have raised many questions that you should answer. Your parable about the coming of Saul before David is insensitive to the mood of the nation. You may wish to read the attached tweet. pic.twitter.com/J0A9tKlvcg — Inibehe Effiong (@InibeheEffiong) February 20, 2023  Pastor Paul Adefarasin and others like him who have been attacked by the mob should not take anything they say seriously. It’s all founded on blackmail. Just by declaring for their candidate, they’d swallow every word. In fact, you don’t even need to declare. Just tease them pic.twitter.com/lYzPUegvjD — JJ. Omojuwa (@Omojuwa) February 21, 2023  Pastor @pauladefarasin told his congregation that the elections may not go as they want it. That Saul has to come first before David. He said that Saul was not so bad. This type of message is very annoying. Is Buhari not “Saul” or worse than “Saul”? Have we not suffered enough? — Inibehe Effiong (@InibeheEffiong) February 20, 2023  Pastor Paul Adefarasin's pockets are filled with corn, but his congregation is OBIdient. And in order not to annoy the congregation, he passes his CORNfused message to them in parables with an aim to tactically convert a good number of them to corn eaters. Smart by half. pic.twitter.com/4HrddbFF0j — Will E. (@PEC_Concepts) February 20, 2023  Pastor wants you to vote for another Saul but Alvin was schooled in the UK. Alvin did not experience the first Saul. Don't let anybody tell you otherwise. God has chosen @PeterObi for a time like this. We will be careful to give God all the glory! pic.twitter.com/PGiKHzHBFV — PO (@bigfrank_123) February 21, 2023  ‘GOD KNOWS IF SAUL REPRESENTS OUR PAST OR PRESENT’ Following the development, Adefarasin, in a post on Tuesday, said it was God who gave him the parable, adding that he does not know the meaning. “Friends, you have kept me busy with your tweets, posts, and comments. Though many are harsh, I appreciate your feedback and I still want to take a minute to share my stance with you again, in the hope that you may gain a clearer understanding,” he tweeted. “As with all of you, I identify as a Nigerian and a patriot, so undoubtedly, I share in your pain. Living in Nigeria, I share the desire for a working country and that is why we all consider this election critical in our collective quest for a New Nigeria. “I really believe that it will happen, and I wish that you could see what I see – the hope that the parable of Saul and David brings – the after-victory. I understand that there are varying interpretations of the parable of Saul and David, and that is fine. “However, remember that the giver of the parable is the One that can give meaning to it. God gave me that parable and even as I released it, I have continued to search for it’s applicable meaning to the present Nigerian circumstances. “I feel blessed to have your ear, however, I will ask that you listen deeply for understanding, so that you do not miss the message. “Saul, instead of trusting in God, tried to manipulate things and even discountenanced his mentor, Samuel. David on the other hand stumbled, but never stuttered, he was delayed but not too late. “So, whether Saul represents our past or our present, only God knows. Whether David represents the future or now, I can’t tell. In any case, the ‘wise’ will wait for the election period to play itself out, before concluding or judging the messenger. “Finally, kindly remember that I shepherd people of all parties, and if that parable was taken in offense, my intention was not to offend you. “However, I stand by what I heard God say to me: that Saul came before David. This means that even if this election does not go the way that you want it to go, don’t be disappointed. ‘Every election will produce some disappointment for the camps of the candidates who lose. God’s will shall still come to pass in Nigeria. It will happen and His ‘David’ will rise to the role. We will get there. Remember, we are all in this together. “If you have your PVC, it is a token of your faith in a New Nigeria. Go out and vote as your convictions lead you, and watch God Almighty do what only He can do.”