Afe Babalola, a senior advocate of Nigeria (SAN), has condemned the government’s decision to close universities in the country over the forthcoming elections. The federal government had earlier ordered the closure of universities for three weeks to enable students to participate in the elections. Speaking on Monday, the founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, (ABUAD), described the directive as “illegal, needless, and inappropriate”. NAN reports that the lawyer spoke at the fifth induction of 123 medical doctors, who recently graduated from ABUAD. Babalola said Adamu Adamu, the minister of education, has no statutory power to direct the National Universities Commission (NUC) to shut universities without consultations with stakeholders. He said the forceful closure of varsities by the minister and the NUC has done incalculable damage to students of Nigerian universities. “Under the NUC Act of 1974 and the Education (National Minimum Standards and Establishment of Institutions) Act of 1985, the Minister has no statutory power to issue a directive to NUC to close down universities. I refer in particular to section 4(2) of the 1974 (NUC) Act,” he said. “The problems have been worsened by the scarcity of money by banks and automated teller machines, ATM, all of which ordinarily make transportation back home, more dangerous than ever before. “If you want to destroy a nation, you don’t need bayonet, bombs, or nuclear warheads. All you need is to destroy the education of the nation. “The illegal closure has adversely affected the curriculum, particularly in respect of private universities which are reputed for their predictable academic calendar and absence of strike actions.” Babalola further said the closure of universities put the security of staff, students, and properties of the various institutions in jeopardy. The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and the Congress of Nigerian University Academics(CONUA) had earlier also kicked against the federal government’s order, arguing that such violates university autonomy.