A viral post on social media claims that former president Olusegun Obasanjo said only rigging can stop Peter Obi, presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), from winning the presidential election. On Friday, Charles Oputa, also known as Charly Boy, shared the post via his verified Instagram handle.  The post quoted Obasanjo as saying that Tinubu sent 78 men to his house in order to convince him to reverse Obi’s endorsement. Oputa’s account has 195,000 followers. “The only thing that can stop Peter Obi from winning the 2023 election is only when they rigged him out, but am here to show the world and Nigerians that once a soldier is always a soldier,” Obasanjo was quoted as saying. “It will be impossible to rig this election under my watch, the history am about to create with Obi will forever be remembered even after am gone, I will bring out my last Strengths and power to safeguard Nigeria thru Obi, it’s no longer Obi but me. “Last few days Tinubu sent 78 men to my house begging me to reverse Obi’s endorsement and turn it to APC, APC a free house where satan makes a decision. “On live TV, Tinubu called me the greatest election rigger in the history of Nigeria, am out to show him that when I started playing politics, he was still busy moving drugs from one country to another. “Tell him that Obasanjo said that Obi is his president and no force in Nigeria can dent that”. Another Instagram handle, @house_ofgist, also posted the claim. Checks on Twitter showed that the claim had been shared as far back as January 11. it's no long Obi but me. Last few days Tinubu sent 78 men to my house begging me to reverse Obi's endorsement and turn it to APC, APC a free house where satan makes a decision. On live television, Tinubu called me the greatest election rigger in the history of Nigeria, am out — De-light (@CHIEFBRYAN01) January 12, 2023   Last few days Tinubu sent 78 men to my house begging me to reverse Obi's endorsement and turn it to APC, APC a free house where satan makes a decision.On live TV, Tinubu called me the greatest election rigger in the history of — SonofChuks (@SonofChuks) February 24, 2023   about to create with Obi will forever be remembered even after am gone, I will bring out my last Strengths and power to safeguard Nigeria thru Obi, it's no longer Obi but me. Last few days Tinubu sent 78 men to my house begging me to reverse Obi's endorsement and turn it to APC — Uyase Ashua Richard (@UyaseAshua) February 24, 2023   Opera News also published the report on its platform, quoting Oputa as the source. A screenshot of the IG post also made it to WhatsApp. VERIFICATION In January, TheCable had reported that Obasanjo endorsed Obi, saying “he has an edge above other contestants”. However, multiple checks showed that the circulating quote attributed to the ex-president was not published on any credible media platforms across the nation. A thorough Google search revealed that no credible news platform attributed the circulating quote to Obasanjo. Meanwhile, TheCable had reported on the importance of verifying reports from social media by confirming if established media platforms have published them. VERDICT There is no evidence that Obasanjo said only rigging can stop Peter Obi from winning the 2023 presidential election.