Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, says the naira redesign policy is not an effective means of fighting corruption. Speaking on Friday during a campaign rally for Siminalayi Fubara, the Rivers PDP governorship candidate, in Okirika LGA of the state, Wike said the policy is not being implemented at the right time. On December 15, 2022, the Central Bank of Nigeria unveiled and commenced the circulation of the redesigned naira notes. The apex bank had initially fixed January 31 as the deadline for the use of old naira notes, but it shifted the deadline till February 10 amid complaints over scarcity of the new notes. Directing his comments to President Muhammadu Buhari, Wike described the naira redesign as “anti-people” and said it will not help fight corruption. “Let me use this opportunity to advise Mr President because I mean well for him. Whoever is advising him on the so-called redesign of the naira does not love him. Mr President, in three months, you’re going. Is it these three months you’re going that corruption will end? It is impossible,” he said. “Why did the governor of Central Bank not bring this policy when he wanted to contest for president? It is now that the policy is good. Mr President, these people don’t love you. “This policy is anti-people, because the notes are not there. Even when I have money in my account, I cannot get N10,000. I cannot buy fuel. Who is losing? Is it not the masses? Is it not the people? “Who told you that they are using it to fight politicians? You think I am not prepared for this election? They are merely fighting against the poor people. This policy is not to fight corruption at all or fight politicians. It is just a way to suffer the people who elected us to govern them. And our business is not to make the people suffer. “I’ve never seen anywhere they change money and within six months they say no more use of old notes. It cannot work; it takes time. Look at the rural areas and the level of illiteracy in the country.” Speaking further, Wike also said the naira redesign will increase security challenges. “Every day, CIA carries cash for operation the NIA carries cash for operation. But here, we cannot give our security N1 million,” he said. “When you are bringing out policies, bring out policies that you know will last for long; make them to favour the people.”