Nigerian children have demanded increased funding for education to address the rising out-of-school rate in the world at a summit in Geneva, Switzerland. The summit, organised by Education Cannot Wait (ECW) and the United Nations Global Fund for Education in Emergencies, started on February 16 and would end on 17. Organisers said the summit aimed at raising money to support children’s education during emergencies and protracted crises. The conference targets a $1.5 billion donation to increase access to education in some of the world’s worst humanitarian crises. At the summit, donor countries pledged to support the course with $826 million. In a statement, Save the Children International (SCI) said children at the summit asked world leaders to listen to children in crisis and prioritise funding to ensure all children have access to safe, quality education. Ana Sofía, a 14-year-old from Columbia, said: “If we had more resources, we would feel safer, and there wouldn’t be so many school dropouts because we wouldn’t be afraid to go to school”. Also speaking, Nafisa, a 17-year-old girl from Nigeria, said the biggest issues facing children could be tackled if world leaders prioritise education funding. “Children have the right for their voices to be heard. When children speak up for themselves and address the issues they’re facing, their problems can be eradicated. Education is very important for all children as we are the leaders of tomorrow,” she said. “Girls who are forced to early marriage have the right to be educated, but this right has been deprived. They deserve to be educated because we need role models that make our dreams come true.” Save the Children said access to education has come under threat in many countries to various issues including the recent earthquakes in Turkey and Syria. “Last week’s deadly earthquakes in Türkiye and Syria halted the education of millions of children. Thousands of buildings have been damaged and destroyed, including children’s homes and schools. Education in Syria was already hard hit by 12 years of conflict, with over two million children out of school at the beginning of this year,” the charity said. The organisation added that conflict, climate change, and the aftermath of COVID-19 have also disrupted the education of 222 million school-aged children around the world. Birgitte Lange, Save the Children’s representative at the conference, said “we are disappointed that just over half of what is needed was pledged”. “The amount pledged today must be used as a springboard to bring more donors on board and top up existing pledges. Otherwise, millions of children living in some of the toughest and most complex crises will ultimately pay the price and continue to miss out on an education,” Lange added.