A Lagos resident has been reportedly killed during a fight with a school bus driver who allegedly sexually assaulted his seven-year-old daughter. The man, identified simply as Fredrick, was said to have visited the school to demand urgent action on the issue. He also reportedly confronted the driver which led to a fight. During the fight, the driver, identified as Jacob, pushed the father of the girl who fell down in the process. “On Wednesday, February 1, my daughter told me that her school bus driver had been taking her to his house at Ajuwon, on the pretext that he needed to drop something at home and that she should follow him,” NAN quoted the the wife of the deceased as saying. “When they entered the house, the driver would ask my daughter to sit on his lap, to raise her school uniform and to kiss him on his mouth. “I told my husband what our daughter said on Monday, February 6, and he immediately called the school to lodge a complaint and said he was also reporting the allegation to the police. “He was told to come to the school first. So, we went there on Tuesday, February 7, and we met the school owner, the driver, and some of the teachers. “The school owner, after listening to us; confronted the driver, saying that he had returned late with the school bus the previous week and when asked, he said he had gone to drop something at home. “He was later asked about the allegations levelled against him, but he denied. My daughter was then asked and she narrated the same experience she told us at home. “The driver couldn’t say anything other than to query ‘me?’, ‘me?’, ‘me?’. “My husband, who was visibly angry, went to the driver and shouted at him to question why he had molested his daughter. “My husband angrily slapped the driver and they started fighting during which he pushed my husband on his chest. He fell and efforts to revive him were abortive. “We rushed him to a hospital, where he was confirmed dead.” She said the school driver fled the area after the fight, adding that the she reported the case at the Iju police station. Benjamin Hundeyin, police spokesperson in the state, confirmed the incident, adding that the command is on the trail of the driver.