The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has awarded N3 million cash prizes to winners of its maiden ‘Nigerian Girls Can Code’ competition. The competition, themed ‘Innovative ways to address the challenges of food insecurity through the application of 5G technology’, was contested by female secondary school pupils across the country. At-tabiya Stem School Abuja came first and won N1.5 million cash prize while Federal Government Girls College (FGGC) in Borno got N1 million for second position. Ambassadors School in Ogun state won N500,000 cash prize after clinching the third position. Adeolu Akande, chairman of the NCC board of commissioners, unveiled the winners in Abuja on Wednesday. Akande said the competition was designed to address the challenges of digital inequality in the information communications technology (ICT) sector. “Winners of this competition were selected based on the application functionality, innovation, accessibility, commercial potential and overall national impact. The commission is committed to achieving pillar 2, of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS), 2020-2030 which focuses on digital literacy and skills,” he said. “For the competition, the NCC sent invitations to 54 secondary schools but only 36 responded with 12 indicating interest. However, out of the 12 only 11 participated with four judges, namely: Agwu Amugo, SAGE Nigeria (Chairman) Martha Alade, of Favour Women in technology in Nigeria (WITIN), the Administrative Secretary of Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria, Paul Uzoechina, and Halima Mohammed of the NCC.” Umar Danbatta, executive vice-chairman of the commission, said the competition was initiated to empower girls in tech. Danbatta, who was represented by Ubale Maska, NCC’s commissioner of technical service, said empowering women and girls will fuel thriving economies, and spur productivity and growth. “The inclusion of girls in the ICT is in line with the United Nations efforts to empower girls in tech and close the digital gender gap,” he said. “The competition has been designed to enhance digital literacy and skills for the country’s emerging digital economy, bridge digital inequality, improve digital access as well as narrow the digital divide between men and women in ICT innovation and development. “The Nigerian girl can code competition is also framed to support technology skills learning for girls and promote broader national audience amongst others.” Below are photos from the event. 