The United Nations (UN) says it is in talks with Afghanistan leaders on the reversal of the university education ban for women in the country. In December 2022, the Taliban government banned females in the country from attending university. Ziaullah Hashmi, the spokesperson for the ministry of higher education, had asked public and private universities to implement the ban without delay. The ban came a year after the Taliban had said Afghan women could continue to study at universities but classrooms would be “gender-segregated” with mandatory hijabs for women. Abdul Baqi Haqqani, education minister, had also announced that subjects would be reviewed to reflect Islam accordingly. In Afghanistan, many teenage girls have already been banned from secondary schools which have restricted university entrance. The UN said more than one million Afghan girls have lost out on learning due to the order banning them from secondary school, which has added to losses sustained during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Amina Mohammmed, UN’s deputy secretary general, said the UN was committed to finding solutions that would ensure girls are not caught in the web of constraints. “We came to Afghanistan to engage with the national de facto leaders including the deputy Prime Minister and ministers to discuss the reversal of the recent bans for Afghan women and girls’ rights and education,” Mohammed tweeted. We came to Afghanistan to engage with the national de facto leaders including the Deputy Prime Minister and ministers to discuss the reversal of the recent bans for Afghan women and girls' rights and education. pic.twitter.com/kcoj8DuQtD — Amina J Mohammed (@AminaJMohammed) January 31, 2023  “In Kandahar, I met with provincial de facto authorities and the Ulema Council to seek spaces and engage in dialogue to bring women and girls’ rights to the forefront. We stand ready to find solutions so women and girls are not caught in the crossfire of restrictions. “Afghan women have skills and the mindset to contribute to the economy which has benefits to the whole of society. Now it’s time to make space for them.” The development comes a day after the UN said it was hoping that the Taliban will allow Afghan women to again work with non-governmental organizations (NGOs) on the ground following last month’s ban. In a statement last week, Mohammed asked Islamic countries to “take much more of a stand” and a united front, adding that “Islam did not ban women from education or from the workplace”.