The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) says troops killed 76 insurgents and arrested 236 criminal suspects across the country in two weeks. Speaking on Thursday at a media briefing, Musa Danmadami, the director of defence media operations, highlighted the successes achieved by the troops in the period under review said 81 civilians were rescued during military operations between January 26 and February 9, 2023. The military operations were conducted in the six geo-political zones of the country. In the north-central, five terrorists were killed by troops while 14 suspects were arrested. In the north-east, 65 civilians were rescued, 26 suspects linked to insurgency were arrested, while 25 insurgents were killed and 340 Boko Haram members and their families reportedly surrendered to troops. The DHq spokesperson said 17 insurgents were killed in the north-west, while 10 suspects were arrested. In the south-east, 16 civilians were rescued, four insurgents were killed and five suspected members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and four others were arrested. In the south-south, one double-barrel gun, 222,000 litres of suspected crude oil, 83,000 litres of illegally refined AGO and 1,000 litres of DPK were said to have been recovered. In the south-west, one suspected criminal and 120 suspected drug peddlers were arrested and 25 insurgents were killed. “Troops of Operation Hadin Kai have sustained and continue to dominate their general areas of operation,” Danmadami said. “Operational activities were conducted in various villages, towns, cities and communities of Bama, Konduga, Biu, Magumeri, Kukuwa, Kaga, Mafa and Gwoza local government areas of Borno State. “Operations were also conducted at Mubi local government area of Adamawa State in the north-east region of the country geared towards denying Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province and other criminal element freedom of actions and restore normalcy to the zone. “Notably, on 27 January, 2023, troops conducted a fighting patrol in a Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province enclave at Yuwe village in Konduga local government area of Borno state and made contact with the terrorists. “Following a firefight, troops neutralised 17 Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists. Troops recovered 1 GPMG, one 36-hand grenade and 77 rounds of belted 7.62mm NATO ammo. “Also, on 30 January, 2023, troops conducted offensive operations on Boko Haram/Islamic State of West Africa Province terrorists’ enclave. At villages within Bama and Mafa local government areas of Borno State, troops made contact with the terrorist. “Following a firefight, troops neutralised three terrorists, and rescued 10 civilians, recovered 13 dane guns, 316 rounds of 7.62mm x 54mm ammunition, 7 rounds of 7.62mm special, one terrorist flag, a bag of drugs among others. “Notably, on 31 January, 2023, troops raided an Indigenous People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network criminal camp at Ovuru community forest in Uzo-Uwanni local government area of Enugu state and recovered one AK47 rifle, five rounds of 7.62mm special, one pump action gun, 31 rounds of cartridges, one locally-made improvised explosive device, one vehicle, battery, two solar panels, one Wi-Fi device and three hand-held radios. “Other items recovered are two radio chargers, 42 pairs of berets, nine pairs of blue uniform trousers, 11 belts, 12 mobile phones, gun powder and charms. “Subsequently, in a follow-up operation to another camp at Iyoun and Agubeji communities of the same local government area, troops arrested three Indigenous People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network criminals.”