BUA Group has flagged off the expansion and dualisation of the 132km Kano-Kazaure-Kongolam highway. The project is in collaboration with the federal ministry of works and housing in line with the presidential executive order on road infrastructure development and refurbishment investment tax credit scheme. The N116 billion project was flagged off by Babatunde Fashola, the minister for works and housing, in a ceremony in Kazaure, Jigawa state, on Tuesday. The minister said BUA Group will be the sole financier of the project to dualise the road. Kabiru Rabiu, group executive director of BUA, said the infrastructure conglomerate remains committed to partnering with the government on critical projects and initiatives that will fast-track human, social, and infrastructural development. He said BUA Group has already mobilised equipment to the site and has the capacity, expertise, and resources to complete the road on schedule. The minister of works and housing said the construction will complement the ongoing rail infrastructure projects of the federal government in the north-west. Fashola said the best way to develop the country is through public community-private partnerships, adding that N348 trillion is needed over a 10-year period to bridge the nation’s infrastructure gap. He praised the management of BUA Group for its efforts in infrastructural development while he called on the governors of Jigawa, Kano and Katsina as well as the traditional institutions to “remove all encumbrances on the Right-of-Way of the project” to enable the contractor to have full access for the execution of the project.  On his part, Umar Ibrahim El-Yakub, minister of state for works and housing, said the project will further open up the country by enabling access to neighbouring countries like Niger Republic via Katsina state. He said: “The road, when completed, will feature three bridges – Ungoggo Roundabout, Kazaure and Daura and also include pedestrian crossings at eight locations along the project corridor and solar street lights for safe driving during nighttime which will be critical to development in the three states.” Also speaking, Suleiman Adamu, minister for water resources, encouraged BUA Group to ensure the highest quality in the construction process and adhere to responsible ESG practices throughout the lifetime of the project. “I am proud to be associated with this project which will have a massive developmental impact on the people of Jigawa, Kano and Katsina states,” the minister said. “The government will continue to support initiatives and partnerships such as this and we are certain this project and others of a similar nature, will help improve the economic status and quality of life of Nigerians.” Upon completion, the expanded Kano-Kongolam dual carriage highway will connect Kano, Jigawa, and Katsina states while it is expected to improve interstate travel.