Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited has petitioned the Department of State Services (DSS) over an alleged sinister plot by political opponents of its founder, Peter Mbah, to incite protests at its terminal situated at the Lekki Free Zone, Lagos. The company petitioned Yusuf Bichi, director-general of the DSS, on behalf of Mbah, who is also the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Enugu state. It said the opponents are trying to cause a breach of peace, and sabotage the national economy by instigating protests at the Lekki terminal. In a letter signed by Robert Dickerman, managing director, the company alleged that persons suspected to be Mbah’s political opponents in his home state were “desperately trying to recruit the company’s partners and customers to stage massive and well-publicised protests at the facility over a totally false and absolutely non-existent failure to fulfill the terms of product supply contract with marketers”. Pinnacle also alleged that the plotters were seeking to create the impression that Mbah channelled monies paid to the company for supply of products to his governorship project, thereby precipitating the fuel shortages across the country. The oil and firm described the narrative as “totally malicious, untrue and unpatriotic, and shows how far his (Mbah’s) political opponents in his home state are ready to go to stop him even if their sinister plot to destabilise the national economy not minding the various difficulties, including fuel shortages faced by Nigerians”. “This wicked machination to complicate current national economic and security situation due to challenges of fuel distribution in Nigeria, is geared towards not only destroying the facility and reputation of Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited and its founder/chief executive officer across the country and beyond, but also to cause a major breach of peace and security across the country in an election month,” Pinnacle said. “Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited is a well governed corporate organisation with an effective board, hence insulated from whatever political ambitions being pursued by its founder/CEO. “We are the undisputed market leader in the downstream subsector of the Nigerian oil and gas industry. Our records as a major factor in ameliorating the challenges of fuel distribution in Nigeria is public knowledge and well published on NNPCL’s website and verified social media handles.” Consequently, the organisation urged the DSS to intervene promptly in order to prevent the planned business disruption. It also the DSS to fully investigate the matter and hold all responsible parties accountable in the interest of the nation.