Abdullahi Adamu, national chairman of the All progressives Congress (APC), says the party has worked hard and deserves victory at the polls. Adamu spoke with journalists on Wednesday in Abuja on the party’s chances. He said the party is “fully prepared” and ready for the elections. “For us as a party, the only result we expect from this election is victory. We have worked hard, really hard,” he said. “No party has been able to put up a robust campaign like the APC did. “I am sure that the efforts we have put into this campaign will definitely result in success at the polls. “And, by the grace of God, we shall surely come out of this Saturday presidential election victorious party.” Adamu called on APC supporters and agents to conduct themselves peacefully and be very vigilant during the polls. He also urged all the political parties to support the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in conducting an election that would be fair and transparent. He said contrary to insinuations of division, the APC is going into the elections as a united front. He said the party’s national working committee (NWC) and its other organs are working together to deliver victory to its presidential candidate and other APC members. He expressed optimism that Tinubu would bring renewed hope to Nigerians if elected as the country’s next president. “During these campaign rallies, in all the places we visited, we were greeted by the massive turnout of supporters and loyalists which has confirmed the fact that we are the biggest party in Nigeria,” Adamu said. “Just yesterday, we held our final mega rally in Lagos, the number of our supporters who turned out for the rally gives me cause for joy. “I am convinced that with what I have seen across the country, victory at Saturday’s election belongs to the APC.” He said the APC’s campaign rallies provided opportunities to explain to Nigerians the party’s policies and programmes for the next four years. “We told Nigerians to have confidence in the ability of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to bring renewed hope to them,” he said. “I assure every Nigerian that the next APC administration will not only build on monumental achievements of the past eight years, it will open new areas of development for the country.” Adamu said the party focused on issues that were of concern to Nigerians and assured that it has everything it takes to reset the country. “In this connection, we assure that the APC remains committed to implementing ideas that will continue to make Nigeria the biggest economy in Africa,” he said.