The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (NCDC) says it is working with relevant health partners to respond to the meningitis outbreak in Jigawa. In a series of tweets on Saturday, Ifedayo Adetifa, NCDC director-general, said an emergency meeting was held to identify challenges and proffer solutions to the outbreak. Adetifa said the agency met with the Jigawa state government, the rapid response team, and other partners on curbing the spread of the disease in the country. He said the outbreak is proof that more cross-border surveillance needs to be done as the bordering Niger Republic is also battling a meningitis epidemic. Calling on a need for vaccination, the NCDC boss thanked health partners like the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Medecins Sans Frontiers (MSF) for supporting the outbreak response in the state. “Today at NCDC, I travelled to Jigawa to check on and offer support to @OfficialJGSG SMOH led by PSH & Ag HCH, Dr Salisu Muazu, SE & team, deployed @NCDCgov #RRT including @NphcdaNG led by @AmazaRahab, all working with partners to respond to the ongoing #Meningitis type C outbreak,” Adetifa tweeted. #TodayatNCDC, I travelled to Jigawa check on and offer support to @OfficialJGSG SMOH led by PSH & Ag HCH, Dr Salisu Muazu, SE & team, deployed @NCDCgov #RRT including @NphcdaNG led by @AmazaRahab, all working with partners to respond to the ongoing #Meningitis type C outbreak. pic.twitter.com/IePdUDRaTV — Ifedayo Adetifa (@IfedayoTiffy) February 10, 2023  “We had a #meningitis EOC meeting reviewed the response, identified challenges and came up with solutions. Happy to see @OfficialJGSG’s commitment to the response. Kudos to @NphcdaNG @WHONigeria Jigawa, @MSF_Nigeria and others for supporting this #meningitis outbreak response. “This outbreak in #Jigawa is a reminder that cross border surveillance work & #EPR plans are never quite done. There is also an outbreak in the bordering Zinder State, Niger Republic. “Pathogens don’t recognize borders and go wherever people go. #Vaccination is key for prevention.” WHAT TO KNOW ABOUT THE MENINGITIS OUTBREAK? Meningitis is a serious infection of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord and remains a major public health challenge. The disease can be caused by many different pathogens including bacteria, fungi, or viruses, but the highest global burden is seen with bacterial meningitis. It is transmitted from person-to-person through droplets of respiratory or throat secretions from the carrier. Common signs and symptoms are fever, headache, nausea and vomiting, neck stiffness, and altered consciousness levels. According to the WHO, from November 1, 2022, to January 27, 2023, a total of 559 cases of meningitis, including 18 deaths, have been reported from the Zinder region in Niger Republic. The Zinder region shares an international border with Jigawa state. WHO assesses the risk posed by the current meningitis outbreak in Niger Republic as high at the national level.