The Police Service Commission (PSC) has appointed three deputy inspectors general of police (DIG) and promoted 1,043 senior police officers to different ranks. The commission reached the decision at the end of its reconvened 18th plenary meeting which was held in Abuja on Thursday and Friday. The plenary meeting was presided over by Clara Ogunbiyi, acting chairperson of PSC. Ikechukwu Ani, PSC spokesperson, in a statement on Sunday, said the commission promoted three assistant inspectors general (AIG) to the rank of deputy inspectors general of police (DIG), 10 assistant commissioners of police to deputy commissioners, 17 chief superintendents of police to assistant commissioners and 301 superintendents of police to chief superintendents. He said 47  skipped deputy superintendents of police from previous recommendations to the commission were also promoted to superintendents of police while 665 assistant superintendents of police were promoted to deputy superintendents of police. “AIG Hafiz Mohammed Inuwa, the force secretary, will be replacing retired DIG Mustapha Dan- Daura for the north-west slot. DIG Dan- Daura retired on the 15th of January this year. AIG Aji Ali Janga from the north-east will replace DIG Zanna Mohammed Ibrahim who retired on the 26th of November 2022, while AIG Adeleke Adeyinka Bode of north-central will replace DIG Sanusi Lemu who retired on the 31st of January this year, the statement reads. “The commission approved the promotion of ten assistant commissioners of police to the next rank of deputy commissioners; 17 chief superintendents of police to assistant commissioners and 301 superintendents of police to chief superintendents. “47  skipped deputy superintendents of police from previous recommendations to the commission were also promoted to superintendents of police while 665 assistant superintendents of police were promoted to deputy superintendents of police. “The recommendations for ACP Nwamanna Nelson, SP Iliyas Casmir and SP Alheri Mamman were also endorsed and the officers were promoted to their next ranks after they were absolved of any Pending Disciplinary Matter (PDM).”